Our religion, is it a transaction with Allah?
No, but you know what you find some people doing?
I used to pray, I fasted, I even didn't even drink any Haram, I didn't eat any Haram,
and I only asked Allah for one thing, and I kept making dua and I kept making dua,
and Allah didn't give it to me. Why should I pray?
You know, and that's actually also a big part of hikmah, isn't it?
Hikmah means which medicine is needed at which time, right?
Because some people, their entire religion is just negative,
and other people, so it's all fear, and for other people their entire religion is all positive.
And both of these are dangerous, both of these are dangerous, too much sweet, you get diabetes.
And too much negativity, you get autoimmune diseases, you get all other problems.
So this is a remarkable balance Allah has struck between those two, and that's our life,
it's always between these two, good times and hard times, good times and hard times,
that's just what it's going to be, that's just this slide.
Now let's look at the word awliya, awliyaullah, awliya ulinda actually, it's really cool.
In the Quran, awliya by the way from wadiya, let me explain the word first,
the animal like the horse, the Arabs like to put a saddle on top,
if you've seen western films, as taqfidullah, because you're the slummit, so you don't watch movies,
but if you're in western movies, the cowboys got a saddle, and that's on the saddle, right?
But the saddle, because you're sitting on it, you're putting weight on it,
it hurts the skin of the horse, right?
Because a long time it gets a blister, like you guys if you ever go to al-Murah or something,
and you buy the cheapest slippers you can, because you know they're going to disappear into the akhada,
by the time you come out, right?
But those slippers, you know how they give you that blister on your skin after a while,
it's just better off barefoot, you know?
So the animal also gets a blister, because the thing is touching on it all the time,
so what the Arabs used to do is they used to put like a cushion, a little bit,
and then put the saddle on top, so its skin does not become irritated, right?
But then it's, and they wouldn't take the saddle off, and the saddle is sitting there for months and months and months,
and then they take the saddle off, and that pillow is so embossed on the skin of the horse,
that they have to peel it off like a sticker too, right?
It's just, it's really stuck on there, right?
That's actually called a waliya, because it gets really stuck on there.
A waliya is a friend that's really stuck to you.
That's actually a waliya.
You're stuck to them, they are, stuck to you.
And they're with you no matter what, a strong relationship, waliya ful'anan,
to come after or be right immediately next to someone is actually waliya.
In modern Arabic they say atadi is the next, it's from the same origin actually.
Atadi, okay? It's from Wa'u Dhamman, yeah.
So, from there, another meaning of wala is actually to command something,
like the one who has authority over something, okay?
Now, it has opposite meanings, the one who turned away from something,
the one who turned towards something, right?
Now, what does all of this mean?
The kind of friend, because Arabic has lots of words for friends,
but the kind of friend that is always stuck to you, always with you, never leaves your side.
That would be your waliya, that would be your waliya.
And if you have the assumption that Allah will be on your side no matter what,
that would be awliya, awliya linda.
Now, it is the Quran, if you know a little bit of Arabic,
awliya could be a mudaaf, and the word Allah could be the mudaaf,
like,
alla inna awliya allahi la hawfun alehim wala umyahzanun,
which means the close friends of Allah.
The close friends of, I'm using the word of Allah.
But this one is, if you think you are friends to Allah, not of,
it's awliya li Allah, there's a laam in between.
The laam creates a grammar and rhetoric, it creates a distance, it's ibad,
which means in this ayah Allah did not put them so close, even in that claim.
They could have been closer with what words awliya Allah?
But Allah said awliya linda, which may also actually be a commentary on,
you're not really sure this is the case, and you don't really act too close to Allah.
So, I mean, even if you made that claim, it's kind of iffy, so it's awliya linda.
And then you believe this to be as opposed to all other people.
This is the key to the ayah, mendud innaas.
There are two qualifications that are going to come, this is the first of them, mendud innaas.
What does this mean? It means if you think Allah will be on your side,
no matter what, because you are the chosen people, and everybody else is supposed to go to hell,
everybody else doesn't deserve that special place that you deserve with Allah,
then if that is in fact the case, that means that no matter what, you are guaranteed jannah.
That's what that means, you're guaranteed heaven, there's no way around it.
And if you're guaranteed heaven, by the way, is the Muslim guaranteed heaven?
No, no, we have to beg Allah, and we even judgment they were begging Allah,
Rabbana tbimlana nurana, Allah complete our light.
We're walking towards it now, we still don't have a guarantee.
Even the people who have the book in their right hand are begging Allah,
let this walk complete, please, ya Allah.
The battery should not die on the light that you gave me,
it starts flickering and it goes on, that would be a problem.
Let the light stay on until we get there,
atmimlana nurana wa sildanan, forgive us, right?
We don't live with that guarantee.
By the way, Christians sometimes have conversations with fun Christians, sometimes it goes,
you know, you should accept Jesus as the Lord and Savior,
because you're guaranteed heaven, ya'll don't have a guarantee, do you?
Like, no we don't, neither do you.
Yes, we do.
I was like, you do?
The one time one pastor told me, we have a guarantee for heaven.
I was like, okay.
If I accept this, I'm thinking, when this conversation is over,
I've always imagined what it would be like to rob a bank.
I want to do it.
I was like, why would you do that?
I was like, because I'm going to go to heaven anyway.
What's stopping me from doing it?
No, but if you had Jesus in your heart, you wouldn't do it.
I was like, then what did he pay for?
I thought he paid for my sins.
If I'm not going to sin, then he paid for nothing.
We should have paid for something.
So let me go do it.
So, you see how it starts falling apart?
Then, on this side, if in fact, if it is the case that you are truly the friends of Allah
and you have a guarantee of heaven, then let me just tell you,
let's not the Islamic view that I just presented.
Let's take the other view.
The other view would be, imagine if the Muslim was told,
no matter what you do, Allah is with you, you will be given what?
Jannah.
Then what do we know about Jannah?
Is it better in this world or no?
In this world, poor guy, he has to go to college,
he has to fail a test, he has to take a review,
he has to pay the tuition, he has to convince his parents,
I want to get married, I want to get married.
They don't let him get married.
He finally likes a girl and he proposes and then she says no.
And then, there's so much he's got to go through, poor guy.
And then eventually he gets married and he's like,
this is not going to be the most amazing thing ever because I'm married.
And then he finds out what marriage is.
And then, you know, then he's changing diapers in no time and
they don't smell that good.
You know, every joy comes with pain in this life, doesn't it?
Getting a new job is joy.
But after a couple of days on the job, getting a nice car.
Awesome.
Getting stuck in traffic.
You know, first time people sit on a plane,
like if you get kids on a plane.
Six hours later on the same flight.
Where are we landing?
If you have the guarantee of Jadna, you're not going to get old.
You're not going to get sick.
You're going to have the best housing, the best spouse, no problems.
What are you doing here?
Gold role?
Because there's no point being here if you have so much better waiting for you.
You don't have to deal with war and famine and disease and sickness and old age.
There's nothing. Go.
You know what this, Allah is not telling them to wish for death.
Allah is saying if you actually believed what you believed, you would be.
You understand the point here?
Do we believe this?
And because we don't believe this, we don't wish for what?
We wish for a good death.
We don't wish for death.
We wish for A. Good.
And we don't know when that is.
So we don't wish for it because we're not sure if we're ready for it yet.
We just, yeah, Allah just give us a good death.
Give us death among good people.
Give us death while we're in a state of Islam.
Give us death when we're in a state of Taqwa.
This is our doves.
A completely different worldview.
And Allah is saying anybody who believes that they are saved in some way,
they should be wishing like this.
Now, it's the Mandun in us is also really interesting because right before this,
when the previous section that we were discussing, what did Allah tell us?
These Umayyin are coming into the final this religion of God.
And then the Umayyin invitation is being opened to every nation on earth.
All the people that weren't going into Jannah now have a chance to be purified.
And you're like, no, they're not going to go to Jannah.
Where the hell are they going to go to Jannah?
Well, then go.
Put them a down vote.
Go ahead.
In Qutul Saad-i-Qeen.
These are some other ayat.
Actually, I won't go through them because that level take too long for you guys.
But for your own homework, you should kind of look at places in the Quran where the word wadi is used.
Just as an analysis, like what is the word, the relationship between me and Allah of wadi?
What does it look like?
These are a couple of ayat that I selected like Allah,
wa li-latina, aamanu yusriju'un min al-lumati lannu.
Allah is the protective friend of those who believe.
He pulls them out of darknesses and brings them into light.
By the way, the second ayat of this Surah,
yaddu alayhim ayatihi wa yuzakkihim wa yu'alimu al-kitab wa al-hikmah, you know what that is?
Allah pulling people out of darkness into light, which means Allah is being their wadi.
Because Allah says in Surat Al-Baqarah, Allah as a wadi, pulls people out of darkness into light.
It's pahadallah.
That's what wadi actually does.
That's what the wadi, if you're truly the awliya' of Allah,
then you're journeying from darkness towards light.
That's what you're doing.
And every day you're identifying some other kind of darkness
and you're making another step and another step and another step and another step.
That's when you're awliya' of Allah.
By the way, the term awliya' of Allah,
I'm going to say something that's going to sound controversial to you guys,
but it's okay, I'm leaving in a few days.
We have this concept in some of our Islamic traditions
where some people are considered the awliya' of Allah.
And even nowadays there are some traditions in which people say,
I have a wadi of Allah in my neighborhood.
I have a wadi of Allah in our village.
We have a wadi.
Right?
These are the...
And what is a common threat among...
It's in different cultures, by the way.
It's in South Asia, it's in Southeast Asia, it's in different places.
Turkey, other places, right?
And these awliya' of Allah, they are deeply connected with Allah like you cannot be.
What they all have in common is they're spiritually connected to Allah.
You're not.
And they can help you get closer to Allah because they're already...
They already graduated from the school of distance.
They're in the school of closeness to Allah.
You're not.
And they are the ones that are going to elevate you.
Right?
When you...
When someone declares that they are closer to Allah,
doesn't that sound like disassumption?
Doesn't that sound like...
Like, I can't imagine as a student that I'm not like that.
As a student of the Quran, at any point in my life,
I can say about myself, I am a what?
I would say, I pray that Allah considers me...
Allah is my wadi.
And it would be an honor that Allah would declare me His wadi.
Actually, because who decides if I'm a wadi to Allah,
it's more Allah's decision than mine.
Right?
Allah is the best.
Allah is the wadi.
Because it would be very self-righteous of me to declare myself a wadi of Allah.
And the thing is that every one of us has ups and downs.
We're human, right?
We have ups and downs.
Do you think at some point you will become so good that you no longer have ups and downs?
Is that possible for you?
But why do you think it's possible for someone else?
Why would you think that somebody has reached a certain status?
They become the Pope now?
They can't come down.
They've already reached the level of angels and they can't dip from that.
And therefore, all of their prayers are answered.
We can do all the good deeds in the world and we can mess it up.
And we can be drowning in sin and we can make doba and be raised.
Allah increases anybody in ranks.
And you know,
So this mentality that Allah is describing about,
we've exhibited some of these behaviors.
And you know what?
Wherever you find this kind of behavior, you find a lot of problems too.
You find a lot of problems.
This mentality creates problems in that society.
It creates cults.
It creates people worship.
It creates, it's a new kind of idol worship.
You know, and these people can't be wrong because they represent the will of Allah Himself.
That's exactly what the Pope says.
What these other religions say.
The rabbinical tradition believed that the rabbis are so close to God
that when they give a fatwa, it actually represents the will of God Himself.
That's why the Talmud kept any additions made to the Talmud is considered sacred.
It's actually considered part of the word of God.
Their opinion is considered part of the word of God.
You know?
And this is the kind of thing that the Quran came to eliminate.
You know, one of my friends said this really, he was a student of history
and he said something really cool.
He said religions before Islam, they were superstitious.
They had people that you had to go through to connect to God.
Intermediaries, you had to go through them.
And religions were all about granting people wishes.
So why did people go to a religion?
Because they want to get married.
Why do people go to a religion?
Because they want more money.
Or they want to get out of debt.
Or they want to solve a problem.
Or they want to heal a child.
Or have a child.
Or whatever. Wishes.
So people go to a religion for these things.
And Islam came and reconstructed, restored.
The purpose of true religion is not these things.
You don't have to go through anybody because you are a slave of Allah directly.
The messenger, sallallahu alaihi wasalam, will teach you how to connect to Allah yourself.
The messenger will give you the word of Allah that you must engage with directly.
Sallallahu alaihi wasalam.
A direct bond between the slave and Allah.
And all of us together trying to bond with Allah, subhanAllah, this communal.
And by the way, does that mean you shouldn't be learning from someone or have a role model?
Yes, but a father should have been the role model to his children.
And the grandfather should have been the role model to the entire family.
Among your friends, the more knowledgeable become a role model in learning and in behavior.
It wasn't supposed to be some special class of people that are designated holy people.
Because this holy class was actually something that every other religion used to have.
But Islam came and everybody became what?
Equal.
Though the final speech of the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasalam, nobody is better than anybody except by what designation?
Takwa and Takwa lies in the heart and you can't see it.
I can't see your Takwa, you can't see mine. It's invisible.
What did we do? We created Takwa uniforms.
Okay, but if you dress the certain way, you look as if there is Takwa guy walking around.
When Takwa man walks into the restaurant, everybody comes out.
Let me go get him to make the du'as for me.
Because his du'as get accepted.
You know, there's Takwa ladies too.
When they walk into a party, nobody has fun anymore.
You know who they are.
You know, they have a certain walk.
They have a certain look.
Haas, Tal Fiddle.
Speak of it.
Everybody is eating chicken.
There was a stop for that.
That kind of istighfar needs a stighfar.
Honestly, you know, this demonstration of spirituality, come on.
This is, these kinds of aiyat, you know what they do?
They shatter the idea of posturing and presenting yourself as sacred?
Well, that's not actually the case.
That's actually what the aiyat do.
But I'm a no-l note in kundub saddikh.
Go ahead.
What are you doing in this world then?
You know, if you wish for that, the word temenni.
I didn't know this.
I learned this today.
I was today years old when I learned this.
The word temenni, which means wish, I translated as wish,
actually comes from many, which means sperm.
I was like, what is sperm and wish?
What do they have to do with each other?
The erids were so creative.
Like, I read this in Imam Rahman, but that's fahadi.
It's really cool.
I'm just one piece of it I'm sharing with you.
First, the erids were fascinated that this fluid turns into a full-on human being.
So they thought this thing, this liquid, does the impossible.
So they thought of the birth of a child as something impossible that happens.
So they associated many with that which can't possibly happen.
And from it, I'll read it.
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know and encourage you
that I want you to sign up for bayinatv.com and help other sign up,
even sponsor students for bayinatv.com so we can create worldwide communities of students
that are studying the meanings and the benefit and the wisdom of the Quran
and are insha'Allah ta'ala spreading that in their own circles.
Thanks so much.
And the word temenni also meant something that's very limited
because they think this little drop and an entire baby, you know,
something very limited that's producing something massive.
Because we are able to identify something in the same way as the picture.
And that could be about thinking and thinking.
Meaning they're just using some imagination.
How could this happen?
From this limited thing, this massive human being.
And it could be about a vision and a building on the inside.
But when he was more on thinking, he became a liar for your own good.
So they used to actually think temenni is always believing something impossible.
Like something it became associated with something impossible.
What does that mean?
And imagining something that could possibly be true.
And that's why he said,
I'm going to be a liar.
And that's why I'm going to be a liar.
Unlike the translation.
So the word temenni started getting used for things that are impossible.
Like they thought the birth of a child is just some impossible mysterious thing.
It can't be this.
There's got to be something else.
How could this happen?
So the word temenni became wishing for impossible things.
Having what you can call delusional wishes.
Delusional wishes would be called temenni.
And amani, another word in the Quran.
Unless it's laisa bi alani yukum,
the religion is not based on your delusional thinking.
Your wishes.
The religion is not about your wishes.
Amlilin sa'adim ataman na Quranahs.
The human being just get whatever he delusional wishes for.
You're just going to get whatever you wish for.
That's what you think?
And I said this in my delus on previous surahs.
But I'll just briefly mention this to you.
Temenni as a concept.
Other religions, like I told you,
people would go up 10,000 steps on a mountain
to stand in front of a statue to say,
please make her fall in love with me.
Right?
They go up there not to become spiritually elevated or whatever.
They go up there for some wish that they need to get answered.
You understand?
The money to be blessed.
The child to be blessed.
The marriage to happen.
The problem to be solved.
This was all religion.
It was a transaction between them and the gods.
I present to you this, you know, bowl of milk and this Kit Kat.
Please allow me to pass the exam.
I will give you this.
These gods will give me something.
The Vikings and these guys,
they would sacrifice somebody so that their gods,
Odin or whoever would help them in victory against the enemy.
Because the gods won't help if we don't give them something.
You got to give them something, then they'll give you something.
It's a transaction.
It's a transaction with the gods.
Right?
Our religion, is it a transaction with Allah?
No.
But you know what you find some people doing?
I used to pray.
I fasted.
I even didn't even drink any Haram.
I didn't eat any Haram.
And I only asked Allah for one thing.
And I kept making dua and I kept making dua
and Allah didn't give it to me.
Why should I pray?
I think you should try a different religion
where you can go up 10,000 steps
and place your order after making your payment.
Because in your mind, prayer and fasting
and abiding by Sharia was your form of what?
Payment.
And now that you made the payment,
you're expecting compensation.
You must not have understood what this religion is.
You may have thought this was some kind of a transaction.
It's not a transaction.
This religion gives you purpose.
And another religion you might say,
follow this religion,
we'll get you what you want.
Like I heard Joel Stien say all the time.
Joel Stien, I've mentioned this a lot
because I've learned so much from that experience.
When I went to his special in Christmas,
I went to his Christmas special at the American Airlines Theater.
That's what I do on Christmas.
I go to a big Christian thing.
I've done it once.
I think I'll do it again though. It's fun.
I got a ticket. I'm sitting in the back
and he's like,
what are these Christians going to talk about on Christmas?
And he's one of the biggest preachers in America, right?
For a while.
And he goes up, this year,
your divorce is going to be finished.
The lawyers, they're not going to come after you no more.
This year, you're going to get your promotion.
This year, that cancer, it's going to be gone.
And there's like 20,000 people sitting in the city,
and I'm like, yes, yes it is.
Yes it is.
Yup, yup.
He's giving them whatever they have.
Taman Nio, Amani, Amani, Amani.
And you just, Jesus is going to take care of all your problems.
And people are like, yes he is.
Yes he is.
And what do we do?
Brother, when's the 27th night of Ramadan?
When's the 27th night?
Why you want to know about the 27th night?
Oh, just I just have to make Duhah.
I have to recite a lot.
Why are you reciting so much Quran?
Why are you reciting making so much?
Because it's the 27th that you want rewards.
You want to let it give you guidance.
You want to let it give you purpose in life.
You want to let it forgive your sins.
Nah, nah, nah.
This Defaat is cool.
But I actually have some really important things I want to ask about.
Like Abdu'l-Karim's family hasn't called back with the proposal.
What did we do with our religion?
Our religion gave us higher purpose.
But humanity really gets stuck in worldly things.
So what we did is we re-engineered our religion back towards what other religions do with theirs.
Slowly but surely we redirected it.
And you know the only way that redirection is possible?
Distance from the Quran.
Should you ask for things from Allah?
Yeah, I know some of you were like, are you saying I can't make Duhah for anything anymore?
Allah said,
رَبَلَا عَاتِنَ فِيْدُنْيَا حَسَرَ وَفِنَا خِرَتِيْ
Of course you should make Duhah.
But you know what?
When wanting things of this world becomes your fundamental relationship with Allah.
Your fundamental, and I explained this with one analogy, please keep this analogy with you.
It will help.
Imagine you're going from here, you're driving from here to Hamburg.
Road trip.
When you're driving from here to Hamburg, are you going to stop for gas or no?
You're going to have to.
Except for fuel, there's a restroom, eat some food.
Isn't it?
Now imagine you stop at a restroom and you're like, this place is amazing.
I've never seen a gas station this nice.
And you just live in the gas station.
They sh**.
Bro, the gas station is nice.
I know they make really good french fries.
I get it.
You really like the scenery.
But this was a stop.
You can enjoy the stop.
But then what must you do?
Move on.
And then you'll get hungry again.
You'll stop again.
And you'll move.
And you'll refuel.
And you'll move again.
Experiences in this life are like what?
The gas station.
The destination is something bigger and greater.
What happens to us?
There's one experience in our life.
One thing we want, like the gas station, we get where?
This is what I want.
This is my new goal.
No, no, you have something bigger.
No, no, no, but this though.
This though.
Once I have this, then I can...
You know, we get distracted on the way.
There's a road we're on.
And in that road, some things will come to us.
Some things will be taken away from us.
People will come in our life.
People will go from our lives.
Opportunities will come.
Opportunities will go.
Money will come.
Money will go.
Health will come. Health will go.
There will be ups and downs in this life.
But none of those things are objective.
They are experiences.
We will be grateful for the beautiful experiences.
We will be patient and still grateful for the tough experiences.
We'll keep moving forward.
But you can't get stuck in a gas station, you know?
And that's part of the lesson to learn here.
And then finally in Quntum Saad-i-Qinala,
and with that, Chawla, I'll give you your break,
is if in fact you're telling the truth,
the word truth, I want you to understand something about it.
Siddhq, means truth.
But actually, you know a spear, right?
Belonging, throw, kill, thingy.
If the middle of the spear is weak,
then it can be easily broken.
But when the middle of the spear is thick and unbreakable,
that kind of spear is actually called ruhun siddhq.
An unbreakable, strong spear.
A man who cannot be beaten on the battlefield,
unbreakable man is rajulun siddhq.
And assault and attack on the enemy,
which could not be defended against,
is called hamlatun siddhq.
From it, you get the strongest kind of friend
who doesn't break the bonds of friendship.
The most true kind of friend.
When things are tough, they're your friend.
When things are easy, they're your friend.
They're not an opportunist friend.
Opportunist friend, that kind of friend is a siddhq.
From the same word, siddhq.
Siddhq truth actually means something strong that doesn't break.
The idea of truth in Arabic is actually strength.
And you might not know this, but kehrib, which is lie,
actually comes from an animal that when it walks,
it stops and it looks back to see if something's coming for it.
Then it walks and it yataraddad fil mashih.
It hesitates in its movement and it's actually weak.
It's weak and the opposite of strong.
And it's also interesting that kehrib has to do with defense
and siddhq has to do with offense.
By the etymology of these words,
but Allah says in Qutum Saadikim,
He's saying, read easy translation if you're truthful,
but behind these words is, if you stand on firm ground.
If what you believe is actually strong and solid,
it's based on something that never shakes.
And in it, Allah is making an invitation.
People that will hold on to this faith have to have firm, solid base.
Why am I a believer? Why am I a Muslim?
Why do I believe this to be the word of God?
How? That takes us back to yatlu aleyhi mayatihi wa mizakim.
Those two, they actually make you clear about why you're a believer.
They make you firm on why must you hold on to this book.
They make you firm on that.
We've become obsessed with the book.
Actually, not even the hikmah. We've obsessed with the book.
We just say, oh, Muslims are doing this.
There's corruption here. Young youth are doing this.
They're eating haram. They're earning haram.
They're dressing haram. They're doing haram haram haram.
Actually, violation of kitab here, violation of kitab here, violation of kitab here.
Nobody stops to ask the question, why is this 18-year-old doing drugs?
Why is this 17-year-old drinking?
Would you ask him, do you believe in the Quran?
I guess. Why do you believe in my parents are Muslim?
I guess I believe. Is that strong?
Does that sound like a spear that doesn't break?
No.
And then if you watch an inspirational video,
you watch like, you know, people sometimes take my clips.
I don't know why they take my clips. My clips are depressing, but, you know,
other people, you watch like a Mufti Mank video.
And the money you've done just went up.
So good.
I'm so Muslim right now.
I'm going to share this with everyone.
I want to make this my WhatsApp story.
Right?
Your iman is emotional. You hear something inspirational?
Goes up.
Then what happens?
You all know what happens next?
Way down.
Then you're depressed.
And then you watch something emotional.
Then down here again.
You know what that means?
It's based on which your faith sits.
Depends on your mood.
Depends.
And is your mood something stable?
Is my mood something stable?
My iman cannot be based on something emotional.
My iman has to be based on something much more solid than emotions,
because emotions are always up and down.
The iman has to be based on something that I'm absolutely clearly convinced of
to be the truth.
I'm intellectually cleansed, emotionally cleansed.
And if it's sitting on that intellectual basis,
that this is in fact al-haq,
then my emotions will go up and down, sure,
but they won't go below my convictions.
I'm never going to get to a point where I'm okay with alcohol now,
or I'm okay with stealing now.
No, no, no.
I'll feel a lesser iman sometimes,
but there's a minimum threshold,
and the iman is so solid, it doesn't let me go below that.
And if my iman is easily going below that,
it's because that base hasn't been built.
And that's the base that the Quran builds.
That's where yatlu a'layhi ma'ayatihi wa yuzakhi'in comes from.
And I've been taking a super long time for this session,
but as we come to this,
one thing I forgot to mention yesterday, and I should have mentioned it,
Allah says about these people in the previous ayah,
that they lost their relationship with their book.
Basically, it was a non-relationship.
They have a book like Donkeys Carrying a Load, right?
This ayah is strategically right after Allah mentioned
the four-step process from the Prophet's license.
You know why that's important?
That's important because if we ever abandon that four-step process,
we will end up in this exact situation.
That actually, that four-step process,
starting with yatlu a'layhi ma'ayatihi wa yuzakhi'in,
then you'll learn the book and the book.
If we leave that four-step process,
we will end up in this exact place,
Kamafal il-Himari Yahmi al-Wasfara.
May Allah protect us from that.
So let's take your break, inshallah. Enjoy a good 10 minutes.
Assalamu alaikum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world
that are interested on top of the students we have
in studying the Quran and its meanings
and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV,
please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much.
And pray that Allah gives our mission success
and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran
and the beauty of it the world over.
