Right? So when the Quran uses this word, what I want you to know is,
it's taking a word and talking about it that the average Muslim Arab can understand.
But even the highest priests of this religion, or these religions, Christianity, Judaism,
that have been studying the religion for decades and decades,
that know the special nature of these words are like, how did he get this word?
And how did he use it in this way? Where's this coming from? Where's this knowledge?
Who's leaking our information?
Assalamu alaikum. Before you begin this video, just quickly wanted to let you know that
so much of the work on the Quran has been completed on Bayna TV. I want you to enjoy
systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end,
in brief and then in great detail. And to do that, I'd like for you to sign up on bayanatv.com.
And once you appreciate what's going on in Bayna TV, I want you to become an ambassador for it
and share that subscription with friends and family, and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
We're going to have you back today. Inshallah, we're going to try to finish
some of the work on ayah number one and we'll get started on ayah number two. I'm pretty confident
we will not finish ayah number two today, but that's okay. These first two ayat are the heaviest
ayat of the Surah. So it's okay if we take our time there and we still have a few days to catch up
with the rest of the work. Anyway, so yesterday I did speak to you about the king and some of the
contemplations that we can make through the concept of kingdom and how a kingdom is known by its
markings, its signs. When you walk into a kingdom, you see a palace, you see the soldiers wearing a
certain kind of armor, you see the uniforms of its governmental employees, you see the flags of a
kingdom, you see the ships and the navy and all of that stuff of a kingdom, you see the assets of
a kingdom, the roads they've built, the infrastructure they've done, how they take care of their people,
how they engage in war, their history, all of these things are markings of a king, the identifying
markers of a kingdom and we contemplate that when we think about Allah Azza wa Jalla. Yesterday,
before I ended the lecture, I tried to tell you the connection between kingdom and power and holiness
and how in politics, religion and politics have always had this, I mean the right word to say,
they've always had an unholy marriage, right? They've had an unholy connection between them
and so even today, politicians use the religious class in many countries to gain their votes.
So in American politics, for example, if on a conservative party or something, a politician
wants to gain their base, they will go into a church and kiss some babies before the election,
you know, and make sure they take their pictures and talk about God and all of that, even though
they're the most anti-bible people in their lifestyle, but they will still
tout the Bible when they're trying to get their votes, right? So religion and politics have always
had this kind of a relationship. This has happened among the Israelites also. I've talked about this
in some detail, if you want to know more about that concept, there's actually a story in the Qur'an
that details this unholy alliance and how the Qur'an comments on it in such a sophisticated way,
it could be a PhD in political science. And that's the story of Talut and Jalut in Sulat Al-Baqarah,
where Allah talks about religion and politics together and how people try to manipulate religion
to serve political goals, right? So religion just becomes a tool in political agendas. I've had some
personal experiences with this too. I was in a country that shall not be named and I was giving
lectures at the university. I was giving talks at the Masjid and all that kind of stuff. All of a
sudden I get a call from the prime minister's office. They hit that he'd like to meet me. I'm
like, why does he want to meet me? And what are you going to talk about? And usually you think, oh,
my God, the prime minister wants to meet you. I was like, no, I know what this is. Let me just check.
And I had to check whether or not he's doing well in the elections, because when they're
because when they're politically going down, then they want to take a picture, they want to take
a selfie next to somebody who think will get them, make them feel a little more normal,
right? And they'll do these kinds of things. So, you know, these things are a reality in the world.
And we have to be mindful of that. And that's something Allah alludes to in Malik Al-Quddus.
But now let's get right to the work. The word Al-Quddus, the second name of Allah mentioned
in this ayah. Let's dig into the origin of this word. Quddus, the root theme, meaning the word,
the three letters, Qafdah, Dada, and Sin, originally have to do with purity and holiness and sanctity.
Quddasa means to purify. I'll show you that in the ayah of Surat Al-Baqarah. It's one of the earliest
words we learn about in the Quran. The angels, when Allah told them that he's going to put human
beings on the earth, they said,
So, they use this word to describe how they are with Allah. So, we'll get to that ayah in a second
to help us understand this word a little better. But its origin comes from this imagery of water
that can get muddy easily. And the Arabs, they would have like a trough, like a mini well kind
of thing, like the picture you see here. That's a water trough. And they would put stones in it
so it doesn't get dirty, so it doesn't get muddy underneath. And this was an old way of keeping
water pure but filling it up with stones. Okay? So,
So, it doesn't get, you know, the water doesn't get contaminated easily. Al Qadis is again,
it's also used because the camels have to put their head down to drink, but sometimes the water
level was too low. So, they would put stones in the water, so the water would rise and then the camels
can reach it and they can drink more comfortably. Right? That kind of stone was called Al Qadis.
Al Qadis is, you guys know, because back in the day, in ancient times, people didn't have like sinks
where they turn on the water and wash their hands. How did people wash their hands or wash
their face? They would have these bowls that you put fresh water in from the bucket and then you
wash your hands in that. Right? And even in some traditional families, if you go in the Middle
East and Asia, some other places, you sit and eat on the floor and before you eat on the floor,
they give you a bowl to wash your hands in and everybody washes their hands and dries over that.
Right? So, the sink, you don't go to the sink, the sink comes to you. Right? And that washing bowl,
that's actually called the Qadis in Old Arabic. The word for that is Al Qadis. So, there are other
vessels and buckets in Arabic that are not for washing but the one used specifically for washing,
that one is called Al Qadis. Okay. Now, there's Qadis, which is a sacred stone or a precious
stone. So, it could be like a ruby or a pearl or something like that can be called a Qadis.
Or sometimes people had, you know, like in different religions, they have trinkets that are sacred
or holy. Right? That they ascribe a lot of value to. Right? So, for example, in some Christian
variations, people have like crucifixes. Right? Or they have amulets and the stones or whatever.
Or in some other traditions, somebody can have a stone or a necklace and some, you know, saint or
guru or whatever cast a spell on the stone and now the stone has special powers and you will never
have diarrhea so long as you wear this stone, etc. So, that kind of stone is called a Qadis
in language, a sacred stone. Right? Similarly, jewelry was called Qudas, silver beads or trinkets.
Interestingly, from there, we also get the idea that the Ka'ba, one of the words, one of the names
for the Ka'ba before Islam was Al Qadis because it's sacred and therefore all of its stones are also
what? Sacred. Right? So, that's why it was called Qadis and Quran uses the word Muqaddas to describe
Jerusalem, Al Arda Al Muqaddasa. So, it uses the same term for, so it's the name of Allah, Qudus,
but now it's being used for other than Allah. It's being used for a land. Right? And at Takdis,
now this is what the, let's come to what the angels said to Allah.
Nukadisulak actually means two things. I've written them here. One of the things it means is we
purify ourselves for you. We purify ourselves for you. We keep ourselves pure for your worship.
That's what the angels said to Allah. The other meaning is we keep declaring how pure and perfect
you are. So, Takdis means two things. That's one implication. We purify ourselves for you.
And we consider you. We acknowledge you as pure. This is a name of Allah that we use. The Prophet
sallallahu alayhi wasallam used to use. Subhan al-malik al-Qudus, and sometimes in Ruku'a,
the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam sometimes would say,
So, it's used there. It's also used for the angel Jibril. Right? Ruh al-Qudus.
Ruh al-Qudus. You'll find it in the Quran. So, what I want you to take from this so far is it seems
to be similar. Pure, purify. What does that have to do with the water being elevated? I'll explain
in a second. But it's similar to Tasbih. Because Tasbih was to make your concept of God pure.
And now Takdis is also having to do with Allah being pure. Right? So, what's the difference?
Okay, that's similar. But what makes them different? Tasbih is about anything that will be unfit for
Allah to say. To say about Allah. Anything unfit about Allah. Life and death, you know, or weakness
of any kind. Like, you know how in Surat al-Kursi, we say,
Right? So, drowsiness, exhaustion doesn't get to him and he never falls to sleep.
Right? That's it. Tasbih of Allah being forever present and ever aware. Constantly aware. That's
it. Tasbih of Allah. But Takdis is not about perfecting every quality. Takdis is about making sure
you don't say anything evil about Allah. So, there's a difference between saying something
imperfect and saying something evil. Let's take a human example first. If I say this is a really
good person, but they're not very healthy. Okay, they have diabetes or something. They're a good
person, but they have diabetes. I didn't say that they are evil, but I did say that the health-wise
they are not in a state of perfection. Okay, so that's kind of removing Tasbih in that sense.
Right? But Takdis is not about that. Takdis is about this is a good person. They're not jealous.
They're not angry. They're not, you know, spiteful. They're not a liar. They're not a cheater. They're
not greedy. I removed all these negative qualities from them. I'm considering that person Muqaddas.
And that's why this word, Qiddis, actually, Qiddis, important word in Arabic, was used for religious
leaders. Religious leaders, and saints, and things like that, they were considered what? Qiddis. And
this is part of the psychology of religion. In a village, if one person knows the religion more
than anybody else. And it doesn't even matter which religion. If it's Islam, it's Islam. If it's
Christianity, it's Christianity. If it's Hinduism or Buddhism or Taoism or Jainism or anyism, the guy
in the village or the lady in the village who knows more than everybody else, all of a sudden,
everybody thinks that's the best person. They are Qiddis. They are pure because then they have
more knowledge of the pure scripture or the pure religion. So the more knowledge you have of that,
the more pure you must be. Right? And do Muslims have this kind of mentality when someone knows
more, they must be a better person? Yeah. Does the Quran come and take a hammer and destroy that
mentality? Absolutely. The Quran comes along and says there were people that came before us that
had a lot of knowledge of the book. And Allah criticizes them more than anybody else. What's Allah
saying? Knowledge, having knowledge is great. But that doesn't guarantee that you are pure of your
flaws. Those are two separate things. You could be a terrible human being with amazing tajweed.
You could do that. You could be a hafid of the Quran and a horrible husband
or whatever. You could be both of those things. But in the eyes of the village and the eyes of
the people or the community, masha'Allah, this person, oh, you know, because we have this concept
of taqdis of people. Incidentally, taqdis is used for other than Allah, but the spih has not. The
spih is only for Allah. Right? So when you say someone is not a bad person in any way, they're
good in every way. They have no unholy qualities. Then you are considering that person muqaddas.
That's what you're actually doing. And Allah, the Prophet of Allah,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, told us, the ummah, he told us that we will fall into some of the same
traps that people before us fell into. That itabee'un nasoon al ladina min qabliku, it will end up
following the ways of people who came before you. And one of the things that people that came before
us, they did, is they considered their religious leaders perfect. They considered them perfect.
And so they turned them into saints. You know the concept, right? They turned them into, and what
that means is these saints, they had a different kind of clothing than everybody else. They walked
different from everybody else. And if you're hanging out with your friends, chilling, you're
just having lunch or whatever. And one of these saints walked in, the priest walked in, the pope
walked in, the holy one walked in. Everybody's like, everybody just changes because the holy one is here.
You understand? And what did we learn about our Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam? When he used to
be among the gathering of the sahaba and some new person walked in, they couldn't tell which one is
the Prophet. They couldn't tell. Sometimes they went to Abu Bakr and said, Ya Rasulullah, he's like,
No, no, no, no, that's over here. Wrong address. That's over here. So they couldn't figure out which
one is the Messenger Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam because he was so among the people. He wasn't
a special class or he didn't get treated in a special way or expect that kind of treatment in
a certain way. But then you have other religions where the holy one walks in and he puts his hand
out because you got to kiss the ring first. And you see, you know what I'm saying? And we did,
and the Prophet warned that you will follow the ways of the people before you. And some people
within this Ummah developed this kind of thinking and they developed this kind of saint class of
people. Right? And what's amazing about them is if a group among them declares one person a saint
and another group declares somebody else a saint, this group says your saint is shaitan and this one
group says your saint is shaitan. Okay? So not only do they make their own saints, but everybody
else is the devil. And the only thing you're not is human now. Either saints or devils,
which are no longer humans. Right? And then this mentality is so problematic because then
when you put your leaders or your teachers in this position, then they're human in the end.
Two things will happen. One, when you keep describing people as perfect, if you keep telling
someone they're perfect, they're perfect, they're perfect. I'll give you a child's example. If you
tell a little girl when she's growing up, you're a princess, you're the most beautiful, nobody's
prettier than you. Everyone else is ugly, you're the best, you're the greatest. And she said,
yes I am, yes I am. And when she goes to kindergarten, or kindergarten, she goes there,
she's going to walk in and say that princess is here. Hey, what are you doing there, ugly?
Show some respect. What did you do? You praised this kid so much and you elevated their ego so
much they actually started believing that about themselves. They started expecting royal treatment
and I'm giving you the example of a child, but does that even happen to human beings,
adults? It happens to adults. You keep telling them they're the saint, they're holy, they're this,
every time they walk in everybody stands up. Every time they walk in everybody stops eating.
Oh, can I touch your hand? Can I please, can you put your hand on my child's head? Because if you
put my, then he will never go bald because in my family there's a lot of baldness. Please,
please rub his head good because we can't afford propitia or whatever.
So do that. When the guy gets used to that, then he walks into a restaurant and nobody got up,
people kept eating their sandwich alone. So, all these people, I'm never coming back here again,
they have no respect for them. They have respect for them. They just, they don't play this game.
They're not used to this game, but this was a class that was developed and this was the
Muqaddas class. Now, what is daqdis in its origin? It's actually someone who's pure and has essential
goodness in it. Allah considers Jerusalem a place that is meant to have great goodness
because of the prophets that came there. Right? And it was a place where revelation kept on coming,
right? Until even Isa A.S. the revelation came there and so many prophets received revelation
there. So the place has a lot of goodness in its roots, in its soil, and the same way
our sacred land, Makkah, is Muqaddas because it's the place where Ibrahim A.S. built Allah's sacred
house and the final messenger was sent and Jibril A.S. came and brought the Quran in that region.
So it becomes Muqaddas, you understand? And the one who delivers this pure message
becomes the Daruha of Al-Qudus, which is Jibril A.S. So these are some of the meanings of taqdis.
But now let's look at the scriptures that came before us. This is a, I can't read that, so I just
this is a picture, but it reads Qudus Al-Ya'we, the holy to Ya'we, and inscription worn on the
forehead of the high priest of Israel. Meaning the Qudus is a word that was being used before,
you know, the Quran talked about this word. In Hebrew, it was already being used by the
Christians and by the Jews to describe high holiness. It's already a term associated with
them in Hebrew. The root is reflected in Phoenician, in Hebrew, in Northwest Semitic, as Qudus in Arabic,
in Central and South Semitic, in Akkadian texts, and in all of them the word actually means to be
pure. So this is a word, if there was a rabbi listening to the prophets, al-Allahumma re'lai
s-sa'a, or there was a priest listening to the prophets, al-Allahumma re'lai s-sa'a,
of Arabian background, they would immediately say that word, really? That word? Because that's
a very important word in their scriptures. And what I want you to understand is nowadays,
if I want to do this research, I can go to Wikipedia, or I can go to some biblical studies
website, and I can find this information, right? Back in the day, if I wanted to know what is in the
Bible, what words are used in the Hebrew text, what word is used in the Syriac scriptures,
you know, what do they have? You don't get access to that information. That is classified documents
that are rolled up in scrolls, and only their high priests and high rabbis have access to those
documents. Even the general public among the Israelites don't have access to that, just like
the archives in the Vatican, for example, that you have to have very high access in the hierarchy of
the church to be able to access those manuscripts. You can't just Google them, right? So when the
Quran uses this word, what I want you to know is it's taking a word and talking about it that the
average Muslim Arab can understand, but even the highest priests of this religion are these
religions, Christianity, Judaism, that have been studying the religion for decades and decades,
that know the special nature of these words, are like, how did he get this word? And how did he use
it in this way? Where's this coming from? Where's this knowledge? Who's leaking our information?
There's a WikiLeaks situation that's happening in the Quran, and this is actually a constant
phenomenon in the Quran. The Quran is commenting on things that actually only, the knowledge that
was only accessible to the highest priestly sources in previous scripture. I saw an example of this
in the last Surah I was teaching. I was teaching Surat al-Hadeed. In Surat al-Hadeed, Allah says
that, you know, like the Catholic religion, they developed the monk life, like people that lived a
celibate life, they didn't get married, they lived in the church, and they just remain there forever,
right? And this was their vow to celibacy. They take a vow, they take a promise that they're
going to stay that way and stay pure. Allah says about that,
رَحْبَانِيَةً, the monk life, ابتَدَعُوْهَا, they invented it. They created it.
Do you know that at the time, no Christian knew that they invented it? Nobody knew that.
Every Christian in the world believed that that was actually what the religion was. That's how
it's supposed to be. No one had the background knowledge of how this was actually a later creation.
This was not public information, and the Qur'an very casually says, رَحْبَانِيَةً
ابتَدَعُوْهَا, and they're highest priests of Allah. Hey wait, that's classified. You're not
supposed to know that. How do you get access to that? You know? So this is actually, you know,
we read these ayat quickly, but behind them is a large story, and it's actually, it's quite telling
how the Qur'an uses these phrases. Just some more about this background. حقَدُوش, this is their own
pronunciation, is one of the names of Allah in Judaism, the Holy One, similar to the Mubalaha
form, meaning this form we see in Arabic, being القدوس. And our grammarians noted that there
are no four, like the ضمَّ beginning and a شدَّ, four, there are only two words in Arabic that
have that, سبوح and قدوس. Those are the only two words in Arabic that have that sound like that,
with a ضمَّ, beginning with a ضمَّ like that and a شدَّ and then a wow. So سبوح and القدوس,
and those are both names only used for Allah, they're not used for anybody else. This is just to
show you how these words are connected to previous scripture. Now, تصوير هنطق ديس are both
typical Syriac Christian expressions for the glorification and sanctification of God. Now,
watch this, there's in red, you see that title in red, what does it say? Cave of Treasures.
This is one of the Syriac Christian texts, okay? And in it, they have stories of, like we have
stories of the prophets in the Quran, they had their stories in it. Their version of the story of
Adam, is very different than what we have. So I want you to know this is about their version. So just
listen to this with me. In whom? So, or of Adam, meaning the glorification تسبيح
and تقدوس in their scripture, these two words in Syriac, not even in Arabic, were used for Allah,
but they were also used for Adam. So, Allah is مقدس, Allah is قدوس and سبوح and according
to them, Adam is also سبوح and قدوس. In whom the divine image dwelt, meaning, you know how
the Bible says God created man in his own image. So they use that to say, well, if God created
man in his own image, then the human being must also have perfection inside him. He must have
God within him. So Adam had God within him. That's why he also has the qualities of
being سبوح and قدوس. This is found in the cave of treasures. Hence, gods command to the angels
to worship Adam. In their story, God commanded the angels not to do such that, but to what?
To worship Adam. And the logic behind it is, well, he has God's image in him. So it's like
worshiping God himself. And that's why you should bow down to him in worship. The Quran
corrects this by having the angels direct their تسبيح and تقديس specifically to Allah. So for
centuries, they believed تسبيح and تقديس belong to Allah and to Adam. But the Quran says,
so brilliantly, I am putting a Khalifa on the earth. And the angels say, are you going to put someone
who is so flawed? You know, I'm going to put someone who's going to cause corruption. He's
going to spill blood. And then what do they say? And we do تسبيح of you and we declare you pure.
Meaning, Allah redirects the Christian discussion on تسبيح and تقديس that was happening in
the region for centuries and says, no, تسبيح and تقديس does not belong to Allah and Adam.
It only belongs to Allah. Let me correct the story for you. This is the Quran correcting the story.
So as merely having angels prostrate to Adam rather than worshiping him at the same time,
whereas the rabbis engaged with the Christian account by saying the angels only worshiped
Adam by mistake. So the rabbis, the Jews and Christians follow the Old Testament.
Right? They follow similar beliefs, but they also disagree with each other. Now, why would the
Christians develop the idea that Adam has God inside him? Because eventually from the children
of Adam, Jesus will come and then he's going to be full on God for them. Isn't it? So they need to
figure a way of justifying that down the generations. The Jews want to undo that in their tradition.
So the rabbinic tradition says, yes, yes, yes, the angels did bow down, but they did that by mistake.
So the debate that was happening before Islam was one was saying they did did,
they did say, the Christians are saying they did say that to Adam because they worshiped Adam
and Allah told them to worship Adam and the the rabbis were saying, no, no, no,
they weren't told to worship Adam. They just, you know, they made a mistake. Angels make mistakes.
So they just accidentally did sajda to Adam. Okay. The Quran vindicates the angels. The Quran
comes and says, no, no, no, the angels didn't make a mistake. They were commanded to do sajda,
but not worship him. So what does the Quran do? It actually disagrees with the Christians and
disagrees with the Jews and finds the middle correct path and retells the story. And this is
really important in the Quran. You might not know this, but the Quran is telling many, many stories
that are in the Bible, many stories that are already in the Bible and in both Christian tradition
and in Jewish tradition, but the Quran is retelling them completely. So the names are the same.
The characters are the same, but the story has completely been restructured to bring it to its
original form. As if Allah is saying, you made a change here, you made a change here, you made a
change here, you made a change here. You know, like in movies, because you don't watch movies,
so this is hard for you to understand, but in movies, sometimes people write a novel and the
novel turns into a movie. Okay. But by the time it turns into the movie, the director makes some
creative changes to the original novel. So people who read the manga, I mean the novel, right?
They're like, oh, that's not what really happened. This was so much more interesting, blah, blah,
because there's a director's cut that's different from the original author. Well,
some of that happened, Allah revealed a story and then over time in the Jewish and Christian accounts,
according to the Quran, you guys made some director's cut choices. You made some edits to the story
and converted it to something else. And then the original story is basically gone.
It's basically not there anymore. And what does the Quran do? It retells the story as it was originally.
And it challenges both of those accounts. I'll take your question at the end, inshallah. So
while while Qudus is extremely common in the Hebrew Bible, Subbuh is unique to Syriac and
Syriac is Christian. So what I'm saying is the word Qudus and Subbuh together in this
ayah,
actually targeted in a kind of very subtle way, targeted both the Christian and the Jewish audience
together in just using that word. So we of course, Muslims are the main audience, but there's also
a secondary audience. I'm reminded of a saying in Arabic,
let me tell you the meaning behind that. It's kind of cool. You know, back in the day, people
lived in houses where they don't have a in America, we have backyards, right? And they have a fence in
the backyard. But in old days, people had a front porch. So you walk into the house and there's an
open front yard with the walls around it. And then you walk inside the house. And the cooking and
the hanging out and all that stuff happens in outside in the open. And the only thing separating
your front, this is your living room under the sky, basically. Yeah. So this living room is
separate from your neighbor's living room by what? Just a half wall. That's it. So if the husband and
wife are having an argument, who's having a great time on the other side? It's your neighbor, right?
So the Arabs have a saying, the husband is arguing with his wife, he's yelling at her,
he says, I mean you, what's my job? You can listen to neighbor.
Because he knows, he's like, you know, that's what she's doing. Well, what does the Quran do? The
Quran is talking to the Muslims sometimes, but the Quran is very aware that it's not only the
Muslims that are listening. Who's also listening? The Jewish and Christian neighbors, the Mushrikun,
the other people, they're listening also. So the Quran demonstrates an awareness of second audiences.
And that's why this study becomes important, right? So there's primary audience and also
secondary audience. Okay. Now I'm going to read through this because this was written by a couple
of colleagues of mine, Sharif Rundawa, and you know, so they've put together a small piece on how
the Quran tells the story. And I'm going to read through this because I think it's just really,
well, I tried to summarize it myself and I was butchering it, so I'm just going to read through
it for you. The Jewish and Christian texts discussed above from the intertext for the Quran,
that is they represent the stories with which the Quran engages when it tells its own authoritative
account. In doing this, the Quran affirms and rejects elements from both the Christian and Jewish
renditions in a manner that expresses its own distinctive theological outlook, correcting
their excesses with surgical precision, unless correcting both surgically. It's not rejecting
all of this or rejecting all of that. A slice of this is taken out, a slice of this is taken out.
Now we're back to the original. For example, in agreement with the Christian narrative
and against the Jewish narrative, the Quran accepts that the angels prostrated to Adam at Allah's
command, at God's command. However, in agreement with the Jewish narrative and against the Christian
narrative, the Quran maintains that Adam merely had a role of vice-jairan or Khalifa, right, appointed
by God, a governor appointed by God, and not that God's divinity dwelled in him. Who believed that
God's divinity dwells inside Adam? The Christians did. And the Quran is saying, no, he's just a
Accordingly, the Quran only describes the angels as prostrating to Adam, but not
worshipping him. Moreover, whereas the Christian account speaks of Adam's divine glory, they
use the word tashbuhtha, which is similar to what? Tashbih. It's a Syriac word, similar to tashbih,
and states that the angels sanctified him, Mqaddifin, which is similar to what?
Mqaddas? The Quran depicts the angels as declaring to God,
We glorify you, Nusabihubi Hamdika, with praise and sanctify you, Nukaddisudaka,
using the Arabic cognates of the Syriac terms, but applying them to God instead of Adam. Meaning,
the Quran used the Arabic words that were very close to a foreign language to Syriac,
which the Christians were familiar with, to actually secondarily even target them. These
words, you use them incorrectly. The Quran therefore safeguards God's exclusive divinity
against the Christian account and upholds Adam's exalted but non-divine status as a vice-genant
of God and absolves the angels of having wrongly worshiped Adam. Additionally, the Quran's affirmation
of God's command to the angels to prostrate to Adam undercuts the Meccan pagan's justification
for their angel worship. Meaning, Mushrikun of Makkah used to worship who? Among the false gods,
they used to worship angels. Now in this story, Allah says the angels themselves are doing
Sajda, so they are not objects of worship. So now in one story, the Muslims are learning something,
the Christians are learning something, the Jews are learning something, and the Mushrikun are
learning something. One speech, multiple audiences. One speech is Subhanallah, is one of the most
remarkable things about the Quran. It targets multiple audiences in one shot. You know, they
say two birds with one stone? This is like four birds with one stone. Accordingly, the Quran presents
its own distinctive narrative of the story of Adam, which at the same time engages with and
corrects both the Jewish and Christian versions of the story in a marvelous and precise and
sophisticated way. Okay, so this was some things that needed to be said in regards to Al-Quddus,
because it has that story behind it. That's why I shared all of this with you. Now let's move on to
Al-Aziz. We've got work to do. So I hope you guys enjoyed that video clip. My team and I have been
working tirelessly to try to create as many resources for Muslims to give them first steps
in understanding the Quran all the way to the point where they can have a deep,
profound understanding of the Quran. We are students of the Quran ourselves,
and we want you to be students of the Quran alongside us. Join us for this journey
on bayinatv.com where thousands of hours of work have already been put in, and don't be intimidated.
It's step by step by step so you can make learning the Quran a part of your lifestyle.
There's lots of stuff available on YouTube, but it's all over the place. If you want an organized
approach to studying the Quran beginning to end for yourself, your kids, your family,
and even among peers, that would be the way to go. Sign up for bayinatv.com.
