This idea of the sense of superiority over others
Afflicted this ummah and this is the exact thing. Oh, I'm telling you Allah pointed out that the Israelites had this mentality and
Allah's corrected that mentality and gave this this deen to the entire world and
Now each one of us became many Israelites
Salam alaikum before you begin this video just quickly wanted to let you know that
So much of the work on the Quran has been completed on bayna TV
I want you to enjoy systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end in
Brief and then in great detail and to do that
I'd like for you to sign up on bayna TV calm and once you appreciate what's going on in bayna TV
I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family and give it as a gift also
Thank you. Then we get to this next high where Allah says
nadika fadlullahi yuqiz mayan
That is that is a favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever he wants
Well, Allah with the phabda Ali and Allah is the owner of the ultimate favor
I want you to first understand the meaning of the word phabda the favor what I'm calling favor
Fadlah means if somebody has a really long dress or a cloak like royals used to wear clothes
But they used to drag behind them right or you might see you don't watch movies
But you'll have a royal holding up his garb or the servants holding up their garb when they're walking that excess stuff is called
Fadlah actually the excess long part is called Fadlah
Fawad al-Mu'maad is basically profits from your property or your business. So your bonus is a Fadlah
Your bonus or your extra profits your extra sales are a Fadlah or sometimes in America. I don't know how taxes work here, but
Sometimes the government actually gives you back some money
After you pay them taxes you get a tax return
Right and when you get that return, it's a little bit of a fuzzles
Okay, so that that fuzzle is extra. You didn't expect it. It's more above above and beyond
Fadlah who this is reversed in
Tech sequence Fadlah who had a guy to he to raise someone above someone else to give someone an extra advantage over somebody else
This is an important word and I'll show you why
before I get to this I
What did Allah say about the Israelites?
He said
I
Gave you an advantage. I gave you an extra advantage and I gave you a preference over all other nations
That's what Allah told Bani Israel. He gave them more profits than anybody else
He gave them more chances than anybody else
They lost the Torah multiple times. It was restored for them multiple times
Allah is now using the word fadlah after saying first of all
He sent a messenger among the Umayyid and then he opened the door to all nations and
That is the fadlah of Allah
The word fadlah is particularly important now because now the fadlah has moved. Oh, what just happened?
The fadlah has moved from one to the other now
I wanted you to see one more thing in surat al-hadid this series of surahs
I'll just highlight the bottom. I actually
li'Allah ya'alama ahlul kitabi, Allah yaqdiruna ala shayin min fadlillah
Wa'an ma'l fadlabiya dillahi yu'tihim anyasha. Wa'allahu ala fadlil azeem
I'll tell you something brief about surat al-hadid 57. This is 62. That's surah number 57
Allah there talks about how
Nations that came the people of the book the Jews and the Christians are so
Confident that you have nothing that your book and your prophet is nothing and
They have dismissed it because they don't think it's possible that the Umayyid these Arabs
They're gonna have a prophet come on
Why would they be blessed? What do they have?
You know, they couldn't accept that someone from that lower nation could be blessed
Because of that they will never even give it time to think about the word of Allah that you've been given
They won't even consider it. It's not even on their radar
And when it's not on their radar Allah says one of the punishments of those arrogant people is they don't even get to know
That they no longer control or they have never have any control over the favor of Allah and he gives his favor to whoever he wants
At the mufasirun said the favor of Allah here is the Quran
They don't even know what they're missing
They have no idea and Allah says part of the goal is they won't even get the arrogant one amongst them
They will not even get to know they won't even know what they're missing and that's a punishment on them
The ones among them that are curious Allah will expose them to it and he describes that in other places
But this is among them the ones that are very you know, yes, they have a sense of supremacy and
What has been given to Muhammad Salli Shallam is inferior. It's less than what they have
So they'll never consider it Allah says yeah, you won't consider it and I will no longer let you consider it because of your attitude
So that's the fadr of Allah that they're missing out now look at what Allah says about his father
He says you have to follow the Rahmatih I don't believe this in the Quran he
He especially chooses with his love and care whoever he wants
Well, I will do for the Azeem and Allah owns the ultimate father
You do you know may yasha'u fee rahmatihi he brings into his father whoever he wants
What volume you know I had that home I'd a ban Aadima now
This idea that this prophet is not just for the errors
He's actually for all of humanity and the doors have been opened for all of humanity a couple of times in the Quran
Allah says this about his prophet so by Allah, I'm saying I'm gonna
I
Didn't send you except as a Rahma for all nations in all peoples
An important thing and another one when I saw that I'd like a fat and the nasi basheer and when I did I we didn't send you except as a
Except for all of people
To give good news and to give one warning well, I can not for a Nasi la alamoon most people have no idea
Oh the thing I want you guys to hear especially the younger students here the younger college students and young men and women
That are here. I want you to understand something
Islam became global Islam was meant to be global
not Arab culture
Arab culture is Arab culture and
Allah created Indonesian culture and Allah also allowed for Sri lankan culture to develop an
Indian culture to develop an African cultures to develop Islam did not come so everyone around the world
wears throbs and
Everyone says hey, what are people in Saudi are wearing? Let me copy that because I want to be more Islamic
That's not why Islam came
It's not did that come for that reason
The you know we developed this idea that the more you look like an Arab
It's but not even every Arab the more you look like an Arab from the Gulf
The more Islamic you are I
Don't know where you got this idea from but it's definitely not the Quran
The Sahaba themselves they went to Rome
Arab Sahaba went to Rome and put on Roman clothes
They did that well I gave guidelines on how you should dress
But not what you should wear how you should wear
How you should wear?
You and this this idea it makes me sad sometimes because you know sometimes you be you beat young men
That don't know any Arabic
They don't know much about their Dean, but they're rocking like the most Khalid you you're you're from Kosovo, bro
Why are you wearing that?
As-Salamu Alaikum wa rahmatullahi yaa Akhi
I was like, why are you Kosovo?
No, no, no, that's all I know. I just want to sound like
Well, you could just say bro you could you don't say yaa he's not more Islamic than bro
So, okay
It's good
So we we became a
You know the idea that somehow copying
Arab culture makes you more religious or somehow that's a superior culture is actually what Islam came to end
Allah says they began as what I don't mean
Right now the alien
There were a culture with no heritage and Allah decided to elevate them and by result
He's decided to elevate other nations, but then here's the tragedy
Who was being taught a lesson in these ayat? I've showed you now who was being taught a lesson who thought they were better
These realites so I'm doing that we learned that lesson now. No Pakistani thinks that they're better than Bangladesh's
Hamdolillah
No, Indonesian thinks they're better than the Malaysians or the Malays think that the Malay Malays think they're better than the Indian Malays
They don't think that ever again
The Albanians and the Kosovans equal in every way
I mean the Algerians Moroccans and Tunisians best friends
Nobody thinks they're better than anybody else. You know
The the Qataris and the Saudis
You know everybody gets along
We don't think anybody is less than us or more than us, but you know Muslims in Muslims in India and Muslims in Pakistan
best friends
forever
right
The whole point of this was now humanity will see themselves
They will see a people that come from different cultures different backgrounds different clothes
Different food different language, but one thing unites them and makes them equal like nothing else and that's their Islam
and
if we don't hold on to that and
We said and by the way that doesn't mean we should all dress the same way or look the same way or talk the same way
Allah's design was diversity that was his design
but when we start
Celebrating our culture our heritage as somehow superior to somebody else's and
Then what we did is it wasn't enough that this was happening in our home or it was happening in our country
We wanted to bring that into our musket the Allah's house
Allah's house
So now you can have a musket in in certain countries
You can have a musket where it could be that there's a one community there the majority that neighborhood, right?
So you go to Steinway Street. There's a lot of you know Moroccans inside
There's a Moroccan musket you consider the Moroccan musket, but other people go there too
Right, it's just it's a lot of house
But now when what starts happening in some places is when other people go there they look at them
But other that's not how you pray
They won't talk like that to one of their own, but they'll talk like that when there's a foreigner
Or somebody else
They'll do that. So one one thing that became is certain races started becoming uncomfortable with certain other races
But then there's another kind of father
The Israelites developed the idea that the ones among them who have knowledge are better than the ones among them who don't have knowledge
The knowledgeable ones are better than the ones who don't have knowledge and then they had strong disagreements with each other
So what did alhamdulillah Muslims never do?
If you walk into a musket and you don't look like you don't pray like everybody else in that much of this brain
Your beard does not fit the uniform beard standard for that musket or
You know we start
Hmm this guy huh I see
Unfortunately he's going to help
Because he's not wearing the he's not wearing the gender uniform
Clearly nobody gave him the memo
This idea of the sense of superiority over others
afflicted this umma and
This is the exact thing. Oh, I'm telling you Allah pointed out that the Israelites had this mentality and
Allah corrected that mentality and gave this this dean to the entire world and now each one of us became many Israelites
That's just that's the sad thing. I mean it hurts me to say that
But we have to you can't fix something if you don't identify the problem
There's a hadith of the Prophet's life of a lot men mirror at all women
The believer is a mirror of the believer if there's a stain on here
The mirror will so there's a stain and the stain that I see then hurts me is that we became either nationalistic
Tribal we became extremely tribal or
We became extremely arrogant in terms of our own religious understanding. I
Learned from my sheikh. This is the hub which means that all of you are but the heads
You know that all of you are wrong none of you can be right
This kind of like us versus them me versus everyone else this kind of mentality is what Islam came to eradicate
It and just think about early Islam for a moment
Just sometimes you should just stop and think about early Islam and you're you'll be amazed
When the soul of Allah, so long as I'm gave his final speech
And he said for you but the rest of the ride the ones who are here should spread to the ones who are not here
How many people were in front of him thousands?
Are they all the same level of knowledge the thousands of people? What do you think?
Same or no
Some people know more some people know less
Do we say by the way when you set spend it to share with someone else make sure you bring them back
So they learn from the pop proper highest knowledgeable people and then only and only otherwise don't share anything
Don't say anything Islam spread organically and
Islam somebody knew two suras they went and shared what?
two suras
Somebody knew the entire Quran they share the entire Quran
Somebody knew if they knew how to pray they just taught somebody else what how to pray?
That's it. That's what I learned and they shared it and the knowledge organically started spreading and that's the early victories of Islam
They spread in this way. What did we do centuries later? No, no, no, no, you can't pray
No, I can't teach you how to pray. I'm not certified. I didn't get four masters degrees in how to pray. I can't tell you how to pray
Me teach you Fatihah. No, no, no
When it comes to Fatihah, I know as much as a Christian or June or atheists
How could I do you need to get me certified PhD to teach you how to recite the fat?
crazy people
This this is insane
This is not how Islam began
We took the focal of Allah and removed it people started they learned a little and then it puts pressure on me
If I'm gonna share with someone else I should try to learn some more and
Everybody took personal responsibility. What did we do? No, no, no, no responsibility goes only to scholars. I
Don't have to do anything
The average Muslim had to be a minimum level of educated so they can be a contributor
You see so they can be helpful
You didn't have to all become scholars
We didn't have to become scholars, but we didn't have to become learned and you have to find somebody you can learn from and they can
And then they get asked somebody comes and asked me
I don't have the answer now
I have to go learn from someone else and then share back and it wasn't about pride or ego
The problem is when you have one group of people that says we have all the knowledge
Come and ask us if you don't ask us then you're gonna get misguided then those people develop their own kind of arrogance
They develop their own kind of elite status which happened in previous religions
There needs to be a
Transparent connection between scholars and the people and everything in between an open transparent connection
And that was what was that's what's missing so far. Okay. Now anyway, look at the open invitation
I'll wrap this up quickly
So lafa'u laika ma'allatheena an'amallahu alayhim whoever would obey Allah and the messenger
Whoever did Allah specify which ethnicity which nation the open invite whoever would obey Allah and the messenger
Then they are among those who Allah has blessed from among the prophets and the ones who accepted the truth and the martyrs and good people
What hasuna wulaika Rafiqat and what a beautiful company that is meaning if you join these people
You're good people
You are considered in the same group as the shohadah the siddiqun and you can even join the company of the prophets
You can be with them in jannah too
That equal for moving Allah that is the favor from Allah before a puddle again
That's an open invite from Allah. It's not just an invite to accept Islam. It's an invite to eventually be in the company of prophets
What a puddle of Allah all the heroes of our history we can join them
We can be among them
Yeah, you had the name of Allah now the other side of the fadda. This is the scary side of the fadda
Please listen to this. I don't swear at the end of the hour. Listen to this part carefully
Please yeah, you had nothing I'm on those of you who claim to believe
May I tell them in come on the enemy whoever among you starts walking away from his or her religion
You start taking steps back from your religion
So so far you're coming common then Allah will bring a new nation
Allah will bring a new nation you have boom. What you have bought a wolf a
Nation who he will love and they will love him
Meaning Allah is saying you're taking steps back because clearly you don't love me enough
That's why you're taking steps back and if you don't love me enough
There's plenty of people that I will love and they will what?
They'll love me back and
If you if you want to take steps back, that's fine. That's your choice
But the word the invitation is open to the entire world. You're not a special race
That only has to be you now. It's open to the whole world. So on the one side
That's a good thing on the other side. It also makes us replaceable. You understand
It could be that the the Pakistanis the Beledishees the Egyptians the Moroccans
They don't uphold Allah's book and the led the sides. No, you know what? I'm gonna replace you with the Germans in a hundred years
They're they're all gonna be they're gonna carry my religion now
I'm gonna replace you with the Italians. They're gonna carry my religion. He could do that
He's done that before
He's done that before the Tatar
The vast majority of them who slaughtered Muslims
Or then basically carrying Islam for the next few centuries
So if I had to know Allah will replace one nation with
Another nation completely so if I could now be common you have a home where you have one out of the net in
Azzatina
He that describes what is it about them that I will love why will they replace you what quality will they have that clearly you don't have
They'll be very humble before believers and they'll be tough against enemies
You know what Muslims became really tough against each other very humble before enemies
Isn't it
Allah says
I
Jaheduna
They'll struggle in the path of Allah
And they will not be afraid of the criticism that comes from anyone who criticizes
They will not be people who fear criticism
Now just internalize these words. How many people take steps back from Islam because they are afraid of what?
criticism
From the family criticism from the workplace criticism from the university criticism from people riding on the bus
Criticism I can't do this thing. I don't you know, unless this way
You want to take steps back your choice Allah will bring about new people
That he will love
And they will love him
I met somebody who told me they have a really hard time
Where they women for example to struggle with hijab for different reasons
I've realized that after talking to hundreds of sisters. It's not one reason there's a and I empathize one reason though is really epic
I've never heard that one before so I'll tell you
I just think that because I come from a country the women that wear hijab are all villagers
So they're uneducated. So when I see a hijabi woman, I think of an uneducated woman
I don't want to be associated with uneducated people. That's why I don't wear hijab. I mean, that's a new one
You are on I mean, that's honest enough to share with me because most people when they have that kind of an ugly opinion
They don't share it. They just say I just you know something in me
But that's pretty raw. That's that's honest. I respect it. I respect it
and
I'm like and on the flip side you have a young woman who
You know, where's the hijab gets rejected from college university applications gets reserved from job offers because she's wearing the hijab
And then doesn't Allah keeps opening
He closes a thousand doors and he opens a new door from in Haifu la-ihtasib from where she couldn't even imagine
And she gets her education gets her and she's some of the highest ranking phd's in many countries are hijabi women
Right and I look at that and say okay. Here's a person who says I don't want to be associated with what?
uneducated people and that person wasn't able to complete their education
And on the flip side
You got people that are ignorant villagers
the umi yin apparently
That are reaching the height of heights
right
So
Allah will replace
He'll replace individuals. He'll replace nations
If that's our attitude, Allah says I don't need your attitude
Take it somewhere else. Take it to tiktok
Okay, that's not what he says. That's what I'm saying. Okay
Okay
Same words that is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever he wants. Isn't that the word we're studying?
Here he said I've opened it up to all nations. That's the favor of Allah there. He says by the way you take steps back
I have many other nations to choose from
That is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever he wants and now the words man yasha
Man is an innocent musul yasha is a musul and because they are both who I'm being technical
But that's okay. You'll get over it both who are it gives you two meanings at the same time
What it one gives you one meaning it gives you is that is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever Allah wants
The other meaning is that is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever actually wants it
I'll say that again. That is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever
Actually wants it
So the you don't get to say oh, he chooses whoever he wants what what can I do?
No, you didn't want it because if you want that there's no way he won't give it to you
There's no way he won't give it to you subhanallah. Yeah, there's um
Let me just see oh
Okay, I'll hear other two done. I'm gonna finish this I want to start the next session with the next I because that's heavy
So I'll hear other two done. I'm gonna kiss me. I mean Allah's intention
Allah wants I translated Allah wants. Yeah
Uh, the warrant in Arabic these two words Sha'a and Arada
Sha'a and Arada. So the irada of Allah is the intent of Allah and the mashia of Allah is also the intent of Allah
But what's the difference between them?
I want you to it's a subtle Quran thing because you know in translation you'll just see Allah wants
But I want you to know the difference between them. Yeah
So the word Shah comes from Shay
Shay you know what Shay means in Arabic? Allah who Allah kundi Shay in qadir
I think something solid
When Allah has decided something and it's set it's solid then you see what word
Shah
If you see irada, you'll see Allah wants something but it will depend on you
For example, Allah will say you need a lot with you. Huff if I go
Allah wants by teaching you the laws Allah wants to make your life lighter
Allah wants to make your life what?
Lighter but whether your life becomes lighter or not depends on who?
Depends on you because if you don't follow the laws your life will not become
Lighter, but if Allah has the mashia
If he does Shah Allah
That means whether you apply it or not your life will definitely become
Lighters guarantees it's done. It's solidified
But irada means Allah has made the intent
But now it's up to you whether you want that intent to be fulfilled
You need to Allah who do you obey in a vacuum Allah wants to make things clear for you
Allah says Allah wants to make things clear for you. Is there a part of that that depends on you?
It does isn't it you have to go learn you have to seek that clarity you need to Allah who do you obey in a
If you don't do your part that it will not become what?
Clear if that was the mashia of Allah
Whether you tried or not everybody would have clarity without any attempt at themselves
So that's the difference between Shah and irada and here guys you're distracting everybody
It's okay. What happened nothing happened. This is nothing
Three people I would have tolerated four or five and everybody's like what are they talking?
God this is this is the tragedy of education
I don't get tired of telling the same jokes as you may have already known
So I'll tell you the same old joke
It's not a joke. It's actually I it's my jokes are actually my trauma is what it is
Okay
I made the mistake of teaching an Arabic program Arabic class
In a classroom where imagine my class by my podium was there and behind me was a giant window
And my students are looking at me and they're also
Looking out the window and behind the window in the distance. There was a highway
cars
I kid you not my students I could look at their face and tell if there's traffic
When there's traffic they're doing this
What there's no traffic to do
One of my students really likes trucks I can tell us there's a truck on the highway. He's looking at me. Look at me or there he goes
When you're in a lecture everything other than the lecture becomes interesting
Poor belayin comes and talks to us man about some issue and you're all like
What are they?
I want to know I want to know what they're talking about
If this was not a lecture you would not care
That would not be important to you. But it's because it's a lecture
This becomes you guys know this in Jumaah Khutbah. Jumaah Khutbah
Is you know, it's mashallah. So some of you you hear in
the
I like that's in between your ashab al kahab, right? That's that's Friday. So it makes sense. So
But what do people do they're like now who's gonna walk in?
And this musket is especially challenging because the carpet is very simple
So you can't even look at the lines that would go like this and that and make up your own faces in it, you know
So
That is the favor of Allah
He gives it to whoever he decides to give it to and whoever makes the firm decision to get it
Sha'a strong decision will solid will and Allah possesses the ultimate favor
Many mufasir would have commented over and over again that the fadal of Allah is also referring to the Quran
Allah possesses the ultimate favor. That is that the favor of Allah is the Quran
Abba aza fi al ummiyina rasul an
Rasul himself is on Quran and yamshi the Quran walking around is the prophet
Salallahu alayhi wa sallam, right? So all of it boils down to the word of Allah
And that is the favor of Allah that they're missing out on
Salamu alaykum everyone
There are almost 50 000 students around the world that are interested on top of the students
We have in studying the Quran and its meanings and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive. So if you can help sponsor students on bayna tv
Please do so and visit our sponsorship page
I appreciate it so much and pray that Allah gives our mission success and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran
And the beauty of it the world over
