Sometimes you have people at the at the restaurant can I have some ketchup? We don't allow that here. We don't give extra ketchup
Really
Read the sign. I saw you give it to your cousin. It was about right before you give him four extra ketchups
You can't give me a ketchup. I know you have the Aiza and you're acting like you're working under the milk
The strangest of seed of Quran
Now
Let's move on to al-Azeez you got work to do so
Al-Azeez is one of the most common names of Allah. It comes from
Earth actually
Azaza Azaza ma'zuza. This is all used for tough ground
Like you know earth you can dig in too easily. That's not arda Aziz or Azaz or Azza
But earth that's made of rock and you can't break through, you know tough earth. That's actually called Azaz unbreakable soil
Unbreakable land like rocky land. That's called arda ma'zuza
Farasul mu'tazza was used in mu'tazza as the attribute here for a horse that has very strong muscles
Like it's rock solid. It's built like that. That's called mu'tazza
And then sometimes they had a camel that had a disease where its muscles become stiff like muscle atrophy
Right and when it became so stiff you couldn't milk the camel
You couldn't get the milk because its muscles are all tightened up and that was actually called naqatun azuz
Because it became so tough. So the common theme you're learning is rocks that are tough muscles that are tough muscles that have become stiff
The eqatun ahali. This is mistycle mistycle. Ahali min shiddati nasiji tahmiha
It's because because of the tightness or the atrophy of the muscles. You cannot get milk out of the camel
Okay, al-Azeez also means the elevation of rank
so if you went from
Internship to manager to executive manager to director you are increasing in is
You're increasing in your rank in your company an invincible person
Let me explain what invisible here means nobody can take you down
Nobody can attack you. Nobody can challenge your position if you're in an untouchable position
Then you are called al-Azeez
Al-Azeez one one punch man in his cartoon show is
Aziz, okay, so if you want to buy analogy if you'd like to you know, so Superman without kryptonite
Is Aziz until Kryptonite shows up or the Hulk or so?
I don't know what but these are examples of somebody who's invincible can't be broken can't be defeated, right?
And that's called al-Azeez al-qawee al-shadeed al-ghaalab al-ladila yuhaalab
There's the strong one that wins every time and cannot be won over
Maa la yumkin this type of my mother you can't will soon we're a he met the house and Aziz
It's also used for something that is impossible to
Beat like they use it for a castle or a fort, you know castles used to have these walls outside
Right so that armies can't just walk in they have to try to beat the wall and break the wall or
Cattle pulled the wall, you know to be able to penetrate but a wall that will just won't break and a castle that just won't be
You know dominated is actually called his son Aziz a
Fort that is impossible to break through an impregnable fortress to strengthen and empower is Azza
This is used in the Quran like you know in surah Yasin. There were three messengers sent to one nation
Right if I've sent a lay him with name
Faka Zabahuma fa Azzaz na bethalifin
So same from the same word Aziz we sent them to messengers then we made them stronger with the third one
So to empower is actually the meaning of the Aziz and Azza is also used for when you are bullying someone
When you're being tough with someone from the same rugged tough
Overbearing it's used for example in the story of Dawood
Alayhi salam when he was praying in his quarters and
Two people just showed up in his private quarters, right and they said oh, this is my brother. He has 99 sheep
I only have one right and they said
Azzani fil hita use that word Azzani fil hita
He's really tough with me and he's intimidating and he's overpowering me and bullying me when he talks to me
So as I use when you're overpowering someone and Azza Adaihi is also used when you are afflicting or hurting someone
Okay, now this is just some of the background dictionary meanings of the word
Let's talk about how it's used for Allah in a second in the Quran. It's used 89 times for Allah
It's quite a bit is one of the most common names of Allah in the Quran
Ten other times it's used for other than Allah, so it's not only used for Allah
It's also used for other than Allah so for example in surah Yusuf
Musa Ali Yusuf alayhi salam ended up in the house of someone called what?
Al-Azeez Al-Azeez and when Yusuf alayhi salam came out of prison and he was made
Minister and his brothers came barely with any food and they were starving. They were broken. They said you had Aziz
So who did they call it Aziz?
Yusuf so Yusuf used to be the slave of an Aziz and eventually took his job and became an Aziz himself
So he was the minister and that's one of the words in Arabic for the minister
So similarly there are you know in the Quran Allah describes a person being thrown into hellfire that used to have a lot of power in Makkah
And he says look taste this hell in Naka and tell Aziz al-Kareem. You're the Aziz, right?
Please sir enjoy this
You know so this sarcastically they're being made to taste the punishment of hell because they used to use their power in the wrong way
Al-Azeez also so and and this is an observation we will get into when we finish this discussion
47 of these times so 89 times altogether
47 times Allah uses this word with al-Hakim al-Azeez al-Hakim or
Aziz al-Hakim or Aziz al-Hakima so two names of Allah paired together
You should know from my own studies
I'll share with you my own theory on what I find the most convincing approach to studying the names of Allah in the Quran
You know people say well, how why don't you do a series on the names of Allah? It's like if it was that easy?
I could I wish it was it's not that simple
So here's what just some things that you might
Benefit from that will help you in your own pondering and your own study in your own thinking about the names of Allah
Every name of Allah has a unique identity
So you should ponder al-malik by itself al-Qudus by itself al-Azeez by itself al-Hakim by itself
Every one of them has their own unique identity
But then what Allah does is sometimes he puts two of his names together
When he puts them together each one of them still has their own unique identity, but together they create a new meaning
They create a third meaning. So there's the meaning of a there's a meaning of B
But a and B together create the meaning of C
So there's a C meaning also that happens
We know like in chemistry you have one element and two element and they have a chemical reaction and now it's a compound
It's a different thing now. It's similar to that. So ghafur has its own qualities
Rahim has its own qualities, but ghafur and Rahim together also have a third quality a unique distinction
So al-Azeez al-Hakim comes together many many times
Which means al-Azeez has qualities al-Hakim has qualities and together they have a unique distinction
Which we will get to when we get towards the end. Okay now
Aziz I'll tell you some things about the word Aziz the two basic meanings
One is power and strength that cannot be overcome the unbeatable one
If someone is Aziz they are unbeatable. Okay, someone has Izzah. They are unbeatable. Okay
This word is used even like for example
By umar bin al-Khattab, radi Allahu ta'alaanhu wa-saz. Az-zan Allahu bil-Islam. We are a people. Allah made us unbeatable because of
Islam
Why is it that Izzah is from other than Allah and when we seek power from anyone other than him, Allah will make us weak
Allah will make us so Aziz there could mean power, but Izzah has another meaning and that's respect
Rank or respect when someone has more Izzah than you then they have a higher level of
Respect so now we've got two meanings unbeatable power and what?
Respect so we should understand why those two things are together in this word
Is it possible you respect someone but they don't have a lot of power? Yeah
You could have somebody who's a very wise, you know old man you have a lot of respect for him, but he has no power
I think that Yaqub al-Aziz Salam was very wise and respected
But he lived a life where he was mostly
Not empowered. He didn't have any Izzah in his family. He didn't have any control over his sons
Didn't isn't that the case so he has respect without power. Is it possible you have power without respect?
Yeah, all the time like how you feel about the police sometimes
They may have power
But you don't respect it or you don't like it or a judge may have power
But the people he's judging may not respect him may not like him or a president in the country may have power
But people don't respect him or her you understand so it's possible to have power without respect
It's also possible to have respect without
Power those little those two things can happen sometimes even if you don't have to think about government
You can think of a family it could be the head of a household the father in the household or the head of the household has a lot of power
but has no
Respect and sometimes he's a very respectable man, but nobody treats him right in the family. He has no power
So those two things can exist without each other. They're exclusive
but when you have someone who has the highest power and
At the same time gets the highest level of
Respect together that becomes a
Aziz
Aziz is when both of those things combine in one figure and that is Allah's name
Al-Aziz we Allah has the ultimate might the power and he's also the worthy of the highest level of respect
Okay, which is interesting because in Al-Aziz
You've got something from al-malik which is about power and there's something respectable which is in al-Quddus
Right, so it's actually taking elements from both and built building up on that in the word al-Aziz, okay
Now al-Aziz mankana yuridu al-Azza
Fadillahi al-Azza tu jami'a whoever wants is Allah says Allah owns all of it
You know what this means? This is a this is a concept in the Quran
That means anyone who ever has any power or anyone who ever has any respect in this world
They didn't get it themselves
That came from Allah
That came so my power over anything in my respect the respect that I have in a society the respect
I even have for myself wasn't generated by me. It was generated by Allah
Fadillahi al-Azza tu jami'a
Tu-Azzu man-tasha wa tu-dillu man-tasha you can humiliate who you can empower and honor whoever you want
You can humiliate and weaken whoever you want. What's Quran ad-Daud? I love this phrase. Dawud al-Aziz was one of the most powerful
Politically powered and empowered prophets in history
Right, he was a he was a massive ruler and he had great great empire under him
Okay, and Allah when he describes him he describes him as Allah's slave
So it's a story about how powerful Dawud is but his first introduction is he's Allah's what?
slave just to remind that actually his power is nothing because he's just a
Slave of Allah all power actually comes from Allah his is that came from Allah's door jump and so
Usually subjugation when somebody overpowers you somebody forces you to do something
Somebody tells you, you know, like for example if people are arresting a person, right?
They're making them put their hands behind their back and they're putting handcuffs on them. It's humiliating. Isn't it when someone overpowers you?
It's humiliating if two brothers are having an argument or a fight and one brother pins the other one down on the ground and says
Say sorry say sorry and I'll let you go. I'm never gonna say it say it say it and then he finally says sorry
Is that humiliating? Yep. Yep, and then when he finally left some books
I didn't mean it and then he runs away because he's trying to recover his dignity
All right, that never happened to me. I don't have brothers. I'm just saying okay
So as any film kid, he's humiliating me in other words when someone exacts there is on you then it is it is humiliating
You know sometimes you may have authority
But you don't use it
Right. I have an authority as a boss in my company
I have authority over my employees and if my employees mess up
They and they come to me and say hey, I'm I really messed up. I'm sorry. I have two choices
I could be as these right now and say oh, yeah
Well, you messed up
Let's go over it again, and I could humiliate the guy I could humiliate him or I could just say it's okay
Just you know don't worry about it. It happens
When I do that don't worry about it. It happens. I didn't exercise my right as what as
Aziz and I'll show you maybe I was being hakim at the time
You get what I'm saying because I could be Aziz right then and there but I decide you know what longer term
I would rather this person make that correction themselves and
Maybe me forgiving them this time will build more respect for me in their heart
And they will develop more loyalty instead of developing resentment. So maybe longer term. It's better for them
That I right now don't exercise my Izzah. I exercise my what?
Hey, so I I choose to step on the accelerator or release the accelerator depending on the next
You see how there's a good relationship between the two right by way by way of that example
Okay, so now let's talk a little bit more about the two names that are similar in these four names
Almalik and al-Qudus are similar
Why I'm like means King and a lazeez means authority
Right, so they both have to do with power control and authority. So then what's the difference?
What how would you understand the difference between them a really cool place to understand the difference between them is surat
Yousuf because surat Yousuf uses al-malik as one character and so it uses
So do some uses at Aziz as another character in the same story. So the king of Egypt is called al-malik
But the minister is called
al-Aziz
Now how many people here have businesses? If you have a business, I'm very few. Okay. Yeah, okay
If I was if I asked this question in America, most people would raise their hand. We're an entrepreneurial nation. Anyway, so
If you have it if somebody has a business they own the business they invested in the business
Let's just say I want to sometimes you have something called a passive investor
He says hey, I'm gonna give you my money
You buy this this building you find the tenants you run it you manage it. You're the manager. I'm the owner
Okay, so the one who owns it does he check every day? No, he just checks in six months
How's the financial report am I making money or not?
And every day if somebody didn't pay their rent or somebody has an electrical problem
Somebody has a gas problem. Somebody has this problem with that problem. Who's dealing with that?
Not the not the investor not the owner but the
The manager the manager is dealing with it, right? So the owner handed power over to the
Manager I'll think about government. There's the king and
The king says I want to collect taxes from every farmer
But the king is not going to go collect the taxes
The king is going to tell his military general the military general is going to tell his lieutenants
The lieutenants are going to tell their lieutenants being battalion commanders the�
The commanders are going to tell their individual soldiers each individual soldiers is going to go knock on the door
Is the king going and knocking on the door? No, so the king is actually
Powerful but by proxy
Not directly, but by pro it's indirect you understand
So a lot of times when you deal with authorities like the police the police was given the authority by the state
right
So the one the police stops me it's not actually because of that person's power
It's the power that was granted to him by proxy from the mulk
From the governance you understand so the medic the king the term is actually about power
That is the top command is issued by the medic, but then it is executed by people in the lower ranks
Now let's go to the lowest rank
Let's go to let's say one police officer or one soldier the king made the order
I want to collect taxes and then there's you know, he's a there's bcd
Ffgh and all the way down to to x is the soldier
At the bottom of that chain of command all the way almost at the bottom when he goes to collect taxes
He beats the guy up or
He takes a little bit less than he should take or he takes more than he should take
Why because in that moment who has all the authority?
The soldier does he's actually as easy in that situation
There's the money cup there and there's the Aziz
Down here the Aziz is the one who actually
exercises his power and
Exercises is a thord and these are usually two separate things
You have people that run for the presidency or the prime ministership in different countries
They have elections. They say I will execute this policy this policy this policy
They win the power and then they're not able to implement their own policies because they may have more
But they don't seem to have what is that?
They're not able to execute because the people under them are not listening to them
Or they're not following what they they say they should do be doing you understand what a business is not succeeding and the owner says
I need new management because I have the milk, but I don't have the what I don't have the is that I need new
Manage because they're gonna do better is that job for me you understand so
Allah takes both milk and
Azza
He's a medic and he's a dazziz you see why that's powerful because now not a leaf moves
Without Allah's power and authority
No one gets humiliated and or honored except by Allah's command, you know
Teachers I agree one last example teachers
There's a policy in the school that if you fail your exam you will no longer be graduating, right?
But that's the policy on top and the principal has hired the department heads the headmasters for each department and then the
Departments have hired the teachers and the teacher is the one who actually has authority over the student and the student failed the exam by two points
According to the milk of the school this student should be
Expelled or they cannot move to the next grade, but the teacher says hey just do this extra assignment
I'll give you an extra two points. I'll let you pass
Because in the end who had the Aiza
And teacher did
Sometimes you have people at the at the restaurant. Can I have some ketchup? We don't allow that here. We don't give extra ketchup
Really
Read the sign. I saw you give it to your cousin that was about right before you give him four extra ketchups
You can't give me a ketchup. I know you have the Aiza and you're acting like you're working under the milk
The strangest of Seer of Quran
But you understand the difference between these two and how Allah is the highest authority and the most intimate immediate authority also
Between both of these names. Why was it important for Yusuf to take over?
The Aziz role when the king is already there
Because the king does not know how to execute all of these the crisis the economic crisis who has the capability of doing that
Yusuf alaihi salam so even though there was a Malik Aziz was needed
This is the concept of kingdom and authority that sometimes gets separated
But Allah doesn't allow for them to be separated and he says he's Malik and he's also an Aziz both both combined together
Okay, so now throughout human history someone's seizing power or taking the throne needs to settle into the throne
Stabilize the kingdom establishes authority one might become a Malik but and be considered good
Doos but still not become a Aziz. That's another point. You know when people become newly appointed
Then their government is stable or unstable still
Unstable they say well, let's see how the first hundred days go or if it's a new king
Let's see if he gets assassinated in the first week. Let's see if his brother kills him
Let's see if his uncle kills him, you know
Back at the day sometimes they would be in the Chinese emperors amongst among them for example a four-year-old would become the ruler
He's just sitting there in his diapers. He's ruling China. You know
They're like, I don't know who's gonna come and kill him. So he's got milk, but his authority is not settled
It's not actually he's not invincible. He's not someone who cannot be overpowered. So it's shaky
So he's got milk, but he doesn't have is that lies and Malik and an Aziz at the same time. Okay, so
now
Let's talk about the Aziz and al-Hakim actually
Let me tell you a little bit about a Hakim and then we'll talk about that and then I'll give you your first break
so
Hikku or Hakama, this is actually the first was Hakama to insaamullah inna Hakama means the chin
There's a weird concept in Arabic the chin or this jawbone is called Hakama for human beings
It's also called that for for sheep and the idea is it holds your face together
It holds your face in place
Is it this isn't there?
You know so
Manaha min atta fakuk wa atta sayu
Sawa when cannot madia or ma'noia or kalaman meaning something that prevents something else from falling apart
The idea is the chin is keeping your face from
Falling apart. Okay, it's also a calm was also used for when they put the saddle on a horse
Sometimes they put a thing on a horse's chin and then you pull on it you pull on its neck, right?
That's actually an a cam also when a building is well structured
So it won't fall apart the foundations are strong the pillars are strong. They say oh, Kima till be now
Oh, Kima till be now and from it came the word hookum
Which you might be familiar with hookum means a verdict or a decision and a hakim is a ruler, right?
But a ruler who makes firm decisions well thought out decisions from this
We also get the idea of Hikma anyone know what Hikma means
Wisdom the concept of wisdom in Arabic is really interesting. It is actually based on the idea that you've
considered all of the factors and
After considering all of the factors you have an opinion. That's a very firmly rooted
So that this decision you're making or this idea you have won't fall apart
You know, it's not whimsical. It's not flimsy. It's very well thought out. It's it's secure
Like the chin holding the face secure right or the building being well built
Ideas that are well built well tested. They don't fall apart
They though the sum of those ideas become Hikman they become wisdom
Okay, so he says
The best of knowledge
Based on the best of knowledge and the best of know how you understand how to take the best course of action
That would be Hikma
Hikma is also used in Arabic for wise sayings. I gotta learn some German wise sayings before I go
Everywhere I go, I gotta I have to learn some wise sayings like I learned one wise saying in in Malaysia
I'm gonna butcher it. They say do it first say sorry later
Because if you ask permission first, what are they gonna say no, so just do it and then say sorry
Very wise, yeah, it really works. Okay, don't try this at all
Especially not a Islam like do it first and then yes, sorry Allah
I'm Malaysian wisdom
Anyway, so
the idea of wisdom in
Islamic literature Hikma is actually a really strong idea tomorrow
I'm probably gonna have a special 30-minute session with you guys just on wisdom because
this is a huge concept and
We have very a variety of ideas of what wisdom means, right?
And we I want to get get develop a Quran inspired concept of what it means to have wisdom
So this is Allah's name and Hakim which basically comes down to two things the decision maker
But the decision maker who makes decisions based on wisdom
Okay, so he has hukum which means he has the power to make decisions, but he makes them based on
Wisdom and wisdom means you considered all the factors
Right a
Hakim is different from a qadi a qadi just makes a judgment a hakim says oh you have a cake
You have a situation you want me to solve it?
Let me find out all the other witnesses all the other situations because if I make this decision who else will this impact?
What will be the trickle effect?
You know like the butterfly effect thing what will be the domino effect of this decision if I considered everything that I made a
Decision that would be a hakim because he used proper Hikma. Okay?
Now and Aziz al-Hakim are paired together 47 times in the Quran
So we should learn something about that if
Let's think about a human being before we think about Allah if a human being has complete authority you could do whatever you want
You could do whatever you want you have complete power
Authority that is unquestioned can often be associated with unwise rash and
Unilateral decisions. I'm gonna do whatever I want because I'm the king I
Well, I said I want this I said kill that person. I said let this one go. I you know and you just become a
Like a tantrum child you could just do whatever you want because you have no controls over you
That's why rulers of the past had wise counsel and even now presidents have a cabinet
Right an advisor strategic advisors. So the president. Ah, man, these you know, like in like in sitting in America
Some president these Russians they're annoying me. Let's bomb them and then I'm just in the mood to bomb while he's eating his french fries
Right then the strategic at sir actually it will cause this following chain respect and this is gonna affect the economy in this way and politics in this way and this
Can't bomb anyone it's been so long I spent like three months. I didn't bomb anyone like
In other words if you just have absolute authority then it will create disaster and
In the human realm in the human realm and so human beings since the beginning whenever you have authority
They have to have some kind of what?
Counsel some kind of wise counsel and if you don't have that they have for example in the American constitutional system
They have something called checks and balances. They didn't want to give the president all the authority
The government was divided into the executive branch the legislative branch the judicial branch three different branches
Why because if you give all the authority to the president
Then that's going to turn into a dictatorship and it's going to be unwise
Right, so you have to break up the authority the is that is actually broken up and they thought this will be the wiser approach
It can also be associated with whimsical decisions that sway from one direction to another
spontaneously in other words one day the king says
Get out of here. I never want to see you again. The next day. He says hey, where's that guy? I miss him. I like his jokes
The king can change his mood
Split second and the whole law changes in the country if you're living in a dictatorship your entire nation depends on the king's mood
Because he's running a dictatorship and this is not just about kings and large authorities. Sometimes you have dictators in a family
Sometimes you have dictators in a company. You already the company's one day. We're going this way one day. We're going that way
One day you're fired one day. You're hired
You know you never know based on their mood
So what is missing when people tend to have authority?
Wisdom seems to be missing
Take back step back. Consider all the factors before you make a decision
Know what you're getting what are the ramifications? What are the consequences?
Are you going to be taking this decision back tomorrow? Is this just emotion or is this actually well thought out?
meaning in in in the world in life when we think of is
Is that
Many times the more is that someone has the less Hikmah they have
The less Hikmah they have Allah Azza which has described himself perfectly a lot of Aziz
But at the and separately as a hakeem, but now they're together
He's the only Aziz. That's truly also what?
And hakeem
This is his authority always executed with the highest levels of wisdom and
Even above all of that Allah says about himself
So those those two names have something to do with each other
But we there's two other names we didn't compare to each other which are al-Quddus and al-Hakeem
al-Quddus is
The sanctified one and it's connected with heavenly matters. I've talked about before right so the spiritual matters the matters of goodness
And morality they are they exist in reclusion meaning they don't deal with worldly things
I don't want to know about the market. I don't know what I don't want about the social situation or the political situation
I just want to know about what's happening what's right and wrong in the heavenly sense in the spiritual sense the wise council
By the way kings in the past they had two kinds of advisors
They had the spiritual advisor and they had the strategic advisors
Okay, so the the king would go to the pope or the church or whatever for blessings and prayers and what should I do?
And they would go to their military advisors and their economic advisors for what should I do?
And were they always on the same page these two advisors? No, they hate each other
Like why is he listening to him? Why is he listening to him?
I remember when the first time a catholic became president in the united states and jonah f canady became president
There was a whole issue in the us about well, he's catholic. So is he loyal to the constitution or is he loyal to the pope?
And if he goes and has a conversation with the pope and the pope tells him issue this policy go against this policy
Is he going to follow that or that? Where's his loyalty big?
You know, is he going to follow his council coming from the muqaddas side?
Or is he going to follow his actual cabinet the hikmah side two different sides?
And so in a sense the muqaddas class concerns itself with the inwardly and the wise council with the outwardly
Allah needs no council. Allah needs no ex inwardly. He's himself al-quddus and he is himself
Al-hakim no other king can be this
No other king can be like this
So this in this way now now you'll understand this point
Kings had two kinds of council in the past spiritual and strategic
Many times the two were at odds with each other a lot in these names establishes the most complete description of kingdom
His kingdom encompasses righteous holiness direct authority with invincible power
Wisdom and secure governance taking all factors into account
Meaning this is the most perfect kind of kingdom and on top of that then Allah then you understand what Allah says when he says
Fa'alul limayuri he does whatever he wants
Now when he says you he does whatever he wants. It's not like when a human being does whatever they want
This is a higher level of whatever he wants
And so now you come back to this behan bi end this session
This description covers every flaw that all kingdoms otherwise have
You can have a kingdom that doesn't have the authority
You can have a kingdom that isn't righteous. You can have a kingdom that doesn't have the wise council
You can have things missing
But the focus on wamaa fel ard
In yusab bi hurlillahimafi as-samawatu wa-awafil ard
Is qunaya that it is time that people of the world recognize this truth and were introduced to Allah's perfect kingdom
They need to recognize who Allah is they'll recognize what the perfect kingdom of Allah looks like there must be some perfect way
To introduce them to this king so they too become people of what?
To speak if the kingdom is perfect
Then that king deserves to be considered perfect
And if you consider someone perfect, what do you do of them? You do to speak of them
Now you understand the logic of the ayah
You subbi hurlillahimafi as-samawatu wa-awafil ard
Al-malik al-quddus al-aziz al-hakib
As we get to the end of this ayah now we will see now that Allah has described himself as the perfect king
And everybody does this be all the rest of creation know this it seems the only ones who don't really know this are
Human beings there must be a way for human beings to get to know this king
And how perfect he is and that's what the subject matter of the second ayah is going to be
I'll give you guys your first break baraka allah wa-awakum as-samawalikum wa-awafil al-hamdullahi wa-awakum
Here's what's coming up in the next episode and this deeper look of surah al-jumu'ah
So when you develop that love of of Quran of contemplation of study then the way you're going to start talking about it
You're not you're not going to have to take some course on public speaking
Or how do I you know you're not your aim is not to become a public speaker or an influencer most influencers are influenced
or under the influence
But the the idea is that you want to become a public figure
The idea is you should be able to speak passionately about something that inspires you
