This coming to Jumu'ah is us trying to strengthen our what?
Our light.
To reinforce our light.
Now, when you stand in prayer every day, five times a day, you recharge your light a little bit.
Okay?
So in cars, you need refueling every day, but every little longer, you need an oil change.
And a little bit longer, you need to tune up.
Isn't it?
Salamu alaikum.
Before you begin this video, just quickly wanted to let you know that so much of the work on the Quran has been completed on Bayna TV.
I want you to enjoy systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end in brief and then in great detail.
And to do that, I'd like for you to sign up on bayanatv.com.
And once you appreciate what's going on in Bayna TV, I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family and give it as a gift also.
Thank you.
Salamu alaikum.
Once again, everybody, salamu alaikum wa rahmatullahi ta'ala wa l-akato.
We're going to start studying ayah number nine today.
And the first task is to try and understand the change of subject and the placement of this new final subject matter of surah al-Jumu'ah.
As you already know, surah al-Jumu'ah is only 11 ayat.
We're going to try to cover ayahs number nine and 10 today and conclude with ayah number 11 and an overview of the surah and some additional things inshallah, ta'ala, tomorrow.
The thing that I want you to understand is, you know, there are multiple ways to understand what is happening inside of a surah.
The surah of the Quran is not like a chapter in a book.
So I don't like the translation surah one, surah two, surah three as chapter one, chapter two, chapter three like that.
Because chapters, by definition, have a certain logic that everybody's familiar with.
Chapter three means you've or it's built on the ideas presented in chapter two, right?
And it depends on them in some way.
And if chapter three is going to need something that is going to be mentioned again from chapter two, it won't mention the whole thing again.
It'll just make a quick reference and then move forward, right?
So that's, by definition, chapters are chronological and they have a certain developmental order.
So you cannot start a book and go to chapter 85 if you haven't read the first 84 chapters.
It doesn't make any sense.
But in the Quran, you know that we, even kids know,
qulwallahu ahad, allahu samad at the end of the Quran or inna aqtainakil qawthar at the end of the Quran.
And even though those are the final chapters in the order of the Quran, they're not dependent on earlier material, right?
So it doesn't really fit the definition of chapter.
Surahs have their own unique identity.
The other thing is inside a chapter.
That's just the chronology of chapters.
But even inside a chapter, you're supposed to have a progression of ideas.
So you're supposed to have, you know, some kind of one subject that one chapter deals with, right?
And then you don't have, if you wanted to have multiple topics, then you would turn them into multiple chapters.
That's what you would do.
What happens often in the Quran is you will have one surah, but the surah might have 20 topics.
It might have 15 topics.
It might have eight different topics.
It doesn't feel like a chapter.
It almost feels like a book by itself.
Even it feels on its own like an entire book.
And even then understanding why are these different topics, why are they all together in this?
In this way, why is this being called a surah?
So I'm not using the word chapter anymore.
I'm using the word surah.
So the surah has its own logic.
It's not the same as the logic you find in books and chapters and poetry and other kinds of literature.
It's its own unique standard.
And one of the mistakes we make in studying the Quran is one we say, well, because you're used to reading books in literature, in poetry,
stories, novels, science books, mathematics books, physics books, whatever books you're reading and whatever subject you're reading,
they have a certain structure in a certain order.
We have our minds are built and programmed to process information that way.
And we bring those expectations to the Quran.
And then the Quran does not meet those expectations, clearly.
And then it starts feeling like the Quran is unorganized.
That it's because it doesn't follow the logic that we're used to.
It looks like it's unorganized.
And two things happened in our history.
One thing that happened in our history is our scholars, they started accepting that idea.
They started, many of them accepted the idea that the Quran is actually not really logically organized.
There's no point in exploring why is it organized this way.
Let's just study each ayah as a lesson from Allah.
And the next ayah as a next lesson from Allah and the next ayah as the next lesson from Allah.
And sometimes we can see that this ayah is connected to this ayah and we can describe the connection.
Sometimes we cannot see the connection.
It seems like it's completely disconnected.
And there you'll find that many scholars won't even discuss what just happened.
They'll just say, now Allah is talking about this.
But not say, why is he talking about this?
I wonder why what happened here?
Why did the subject change all of a second?
Even as an English reader of the translation of the Quran, you might notice a very abrupt, shocking change in subject.
Immediately without warning.
And you can feel it.
You can feel something just shifted.
And it's actually meant to almost disturb the reader.
Because the flow, like when you're listening to recitation of the Quran, it has a flow.
It's just called, especially a good reciter.
They're reciting the Quran and there's this endless continuous flow.
You just want them to keep on reciting.
Right?
But then when you're reading the translation, you're like, this is very cut up.
This is very disjointed.
So it actually doesn't seem like it has a flow.
Now, one way to understand the way things are organized in the Quran, I showed you some of the slides on the end of a section and how things are very uniquely organized inside of a chapter.
Right?
And that's not easy to hear because it's not going the order of A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
It's going A, B, C, and then A, B, C again.
Or it's going A, B, C, and then C, B, A, or something like that, which is more complicated than just A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
It's not the same kind of structure.
But at the same time as that is there, and that's, you know, whatever surahs I've worked on, I've seen those kinds of structures in all of those surahs.
And I've tried to explain that kind of a design to the surahs of the Quran.
Many people have been working on this and they've done some amazing, amazing work, especially in the last 30, 40 years.
Quite a bit of work has been done on the structural analysis of the Quran.
I think it's very fascinating, interesting work.
Some of this was done in classical times by scholars, very little.
But now it's become an entire, you can think of it, it's become an entire department in Quran studies by itself.
But then there's another part to the logic of surahs.
And that is, I like to call it linear coherence.
Linear coherence means, when I start my speech, between the start of my speech and the end of my speech, there needs to be a logical continuity.
Like A needs to make sense to move into B and B needs to make sense to move into C.
So you can see the conclusion of my argument, right?
Sometimes you listen to a speech and the speaker is talking about everything.
And everything was really cool.
But at the end of the speech, you're like, so what did he talk about?
I don't know, but it was awesome.
You don't remember because it wasn't methodically structured.
It wasn't organized.
You know, but a lecture in a class, like when you go to your professor at school, a good teacher is going to have a plan.
Here's how I'm going to introduce the subject.
Then I'm going to give examples.
Then I'm going to do review.
And then I'll conclude by recapping the entire lesson.
But they'll have a plan in their head.
A, B, C, D, and then come back to A and finish it all up, right?
They have a lesson.
It's called a lesson plan.
Now, Allah says, you know, I'll have a Quran and we saw here, you are the book.
He teaches them the book and teaching needs curriculum.
Speaking does not need curriculum.
When you're speaking to a friend, you don't need a plan.
You just talk.
But when you're teaching someone, you have a teacher does not think about what's on their mind.
A teacher thinks about how do I get this into the mind of my student that it stays there?
Okay, which is different from informing someone like the news on the radio or the news online.
The news is not teaching you.
The news is just informing you.
So it's a lot of information.
It's not expecting you to remember that information.
You can grab bits and pieces that you find interesting and you can move on.
Maybe 95%, 99% of it, you don't care.
The news is telling you there's traffic over there.
There's an accident over there.
There's this over there.
But there's one road that they mentioned that that's the one you're taking.
That's all you care about.
You know, all that information, it disappears from your mind because the news report is
informing you, but it's not teaching you.
But when a teacher teaches you, then the teacher expects that you should be able to remember
and reuse all the things that were taught to you.
You understand.
So there's a deeper relationship because in all of them, someone's talking and you're listening.
A teacher is talking and you're listening.
A speaker is talking and you're listening.
The radio is talking and you're listening.
All of them are just you're getting taking data inside.
Information is going inside.
But there's a fundamental difference the moment we use the word teaching.
Now, for teaching, a plan is really important.
That's the next part.
Teaching does not happen without a real plan.
A teacher has a strategy that by the end of this lesson, I have some goals.
I want my students to walk away with.
Now, what are the goals of the Quran?
The goals of the Quran is one of them is that you make an effort to remember.
So Allah wants to put things in a way that will make it easy for you to remember.
And of course, one of the reasons the Quran is so miraculously easy to memorize
is actually because part of the design of the Quran was these lessons should be forever
remembered and you shouldn't have to go and open a copy of a book and then
access these lessons.
They should just flow out of you on your drive home.
You're just reciting a surah that you memorize it and you're just reciting it.
Right.
And for thousands of years, Muslims have been memorizing parts of the Quran or
the entire Quran, those lessons become a part of them.
So we made the Quran easy for remembrance.
By the way, making something easy is the job of a teacher, isn't it?
Right.
Because a speaker doesn't have to make something easy.
A king doesn't have to make something easy.
But a teacher has to make something easy, unless speaking in the role of a teacher.
The other thing that a teacher does, that's the difference between a good teacher
and a bad teacher, a good teacher or let's start with a bad teacher, a bad teacher.
Like we have many of those in the world.
They'll come and sit in the class and say to the kids, read chapter three.
And then they're doing their own thing.
Like just learn it yourself.
All the exams on chapter five study.
Are you going to review it?
Are you going to help us understand it?
Are you going to know the book tells you everything you need to know?
In other words, their idea is so long as you have the information, you deal with it.
But what happens to you growing up or even in university, you're reading the text,
you're reading the chapter, you're reading all the information, but it's just isolated
bits of data, but you don't see how it makes sense.
It's not, it's not making sense to you.
It's disconnected.
Then you go to someone who's a better student or someone who's a tutor or someone who's
a, you know, doing internship or whatever you say, can you help me understand this?
And in five minutes, they take this complicated chapter and what do they do?
They help you.
You know, this idea, this is connected to this.
And then you say, you're sitting there in the library going, Oh, it's like that.
Oh my God.
Why didn't they just do that?
Why didn't they just say that?
Why do they make it so hard?
Many of you have had those moments in your life.
And then you, some of you, sometimes you've had a teacher in your life who's really good
at taking complicated subjects and making them, what?
Making them easy.
Right.
So what does Allah do?
Allah actually teaches in a way that makes things easy.
And so the Quran, somebody mentioned yesterday, the sister from Italy, from the
place of bad pizzas mentioned yesterday that, you know, the Quran is simply in her
own words, she said that the Quran is not presenting something in complicated language.
It's presenting it in very simplified language.
And that's actually true.
Allah, the one who knows more than any PhD knows and has more vocabulary than any
human being can ever have, can use the hardest words possible.
And if Allah wants to talk to me about Jewish history, he will, he has no more
knowledge of Jewish history than the Encyclopedia Britannica or the entire volumes
of Jewish history.
And he knows the chapters of history that have been lost.
He knows all of it.
He knows the map of the world better than anybody else.
Right.
He knows, he knows the places that are ruins that are buried deep inside the ground
and we haven't even found them yet.
The nations that have been lost.
He knows them.
We don't know them.
He could talk about them in much more sophisticated, complicated ways.
But he chose not to give us information in the Quran.
He chose to educate us.
And the goal, the first goal of education is to remember.
And the second goal of education, it seems to be in the Quran, is to change
the way you think.
Now, so Allah is less concerned with the volume of information.
Allah is more concerned with the way you and I think.
Actually, so this is really, really cool and really important.
That means we are, we can be obsessed with knowledge.
I want to learn Arabic.
I want to learn to see that we'll learn Hadith.
I want to learn fit that we'll learn Islamic history.
I want to learn philosophy.
I want to learn comparative religion, learn, learn, learn information, information,
information, information, information.
But actually, at the end of every little lesson, every single thing you learn in
the end, how did this change the way I what?
How I think.
How did this change the way I think?
My worldview has to enhance in some way.
With that in mind, I want you to know that every surah of the Quran has a certain
point. It wants you to get, it wants to get a certain way of thinking across to you.
This surah that we're studying, we're starting the final section of the surah.
It's made up of three sections.
There are three sections.
In the first section, Allah described how, what his plan is for that he gave to
his Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, to make sure that the final
prophet gives people the book and they have a relationship with the people.
Have a relationship with their book that is made up of four components.
It's not one relationship, it's four relationships.
Yatlu'a'adahim a'ati, wa yuzakkihim, wa yu'alimu mulkitab, wa l-hikmah.
And then the ummah will grow, but these four elements of the relationship will
remain forever. They must remain in place.
That was the agenda of the first section of the surah.
This is what a real relationship with the book looks like.
Okay.
The second section looked like it went somewhere else completely.
Where did we go?
We went into Jewish history.
We went into people that were given the Torah and they didn't carry it the way
they were supposed to.
Actually, it's kind of like the way you would translate that is they carried it
without carrying it.
Because if I didn't describe this to you at the time, Allah says the example of
those who were given the burden of the Torah, then they didn't carry it.
By the end of that sentence, did they carry it or did they not carry?
They did not carry.
But the example is not of a donkey that does not carry.
The example is of a donkey that does carry.
So Allah is saying it looks like he's carrying, but he's not really carrying.
He's carrying without carrying.
You understand?
So the lesson being taught was it may...
Here's an example of people that were given a book.
Now you've been given the Quran.
People before you were not given Quran.
They were given their own Quran, which was called Torah.
And they were supposed to follow a four step process.
But when they didn't follow that process, they still had the book.
They were still carrying it, but not really carrying it.
So now that second section was actually there to give us a case study.
What happens when people stop carrying the book the right way?
And then we were told, these people, when you don't carry the book the right
way, some problems happen.
One problem that happens is you start thinking just because we have the book.
Allah must really love us more than he loves anybody else.
So no matter how bad we are in the end, we're still going to go to Jannah anyway.
Right?
And they developed that mentality.
And if we become distant from the book, we will develop that mentality.
The second thing that happened with them is they became really scared of death.
Like death was not a...
They didn't have to love death, but there was something that terrifies them.
When you accept the worldview of the Quran, then the first thing you realize is
Allah, one of the first things Allah wants you to know is that you are at this
timeline, you're in this place.
Where did this story begin with Adam, and where is the story going to end?
It's going to end on judgment day in Jannah and Nahr.
Right?
And you're on the midpoint.
And what the Quran does is it makes you realize your life didn't start when you
came out of your mom.
Your life started at the time of Adam.
So your life is pretty long.
It's been going on for a long time.
And you're in an episode right now, and there are next episodes coming.
And now that you know where you came from, you have a better idea where you're
going.
So it changes your perspective about life and death.
It changes the perspective of who you actually are.
Where did your life begin?
What's your identity?
You know, what's your relationship with reality?
It changes.
And because that changes the way you look at history changes and also the way you
look at the future changes.
And then you no longer, you're no longer terrified of the concept of death.
You're not running from it.
You're not trying to stay alive forever.
You're not doing that anymore because you know there's a meeting coming.
This your existence started with a meeting with Allah and your existence at the end
of it is also, it also has a meeting with Allah.
So where you began is where you're going to end up.
This is why we say when a person dies in Nalilahi wa inna ilayhi l-ajirun,
we are, we belong to Allah also means we started with Allah and we're going back
to where we started.
Kama badaakum ta'udun da Quran says the way he started you, you're going to come back.
Okay.
So he's, you know,
Thumma n'u'iduhu,
On n'u'iduhu al-Khalq, we will bring the creation back to where the whole thing started.
This perspective now doesn't make me feel like I am terrified of death.
It's just one chapter among many chapters that are coming.
There was many chapters before and there are chapters coming after, right?
Now, so this is what happened with that.
Now the final section of the Surah.
It is now telling us if you don't want to fall into the same mistakes that were
described in section two, I'm going to give you a solution, this Udmah.
I'm going to give you a solution that every time your relationship with your book and
with this revelation is getting rusty.
Every few days later, you will come together and you will restore your
relationship with the Quran and with Allah and you will be reminded of a
gathering that is coming, which is judgment day.
By the way, this is Surah number 62.
In Surah number 64, Allah will call judgment day, Yawmul Jam'a, the day of
gathering, Yawmul Jam'a.
And this day, the Friday prayer is Yawmul Jumu'a.
The purpose of Yawmul Jumu'a is to remind me at the end of every week of
Yawmul Jam'a.
Okay.
And in Yawmul Jumu'a, what do believers do?
They willingly come forward in the presence of the reminder, the word of Allah.
What is judgment day?
Humanity will come forward and Allah will speak to them.
Allah will speak, isn't it?
And now the people who came towards Allah willingly are going to be given
light on judgment day.
Now let's complete this imagery, the way the imagery is being designed in these
Surahs.
The first Surah of the series of these Surahs was Surah number 57, Surat Al-Hadeed.
And in Surat Al-Hadeed, Allah said a couple of really cool things.
One of them related to Surat Al-Jumu'a is,
When Lathiyyu nazilu aada abdihi ayatin bayinatin,
liyukhrijakum min al-zulumati ilan nurah, I referenced this yesterday.
He is the one who sends down on his slave, meaning Muhammad, Sadat-ul-Aqqali,
he sends down on his slave clear ayat, clear miraculous signs from Allah,
meaning the Quran.
He sends Quran on Muhammad, Salat-ul-Aqqali, liyukhrijakum min al-zulumati ilan
nurah, so he can pull you out of multiple shades of darkness into light.
He can pull you out of darknesses towards light.
Okay.
So now the imagery is, if you're coming closer to Allah, you're walking away from
darkness and you're walking towards light.
Now, this is 62 in the Surah-ul-Aqqali, what does Allah say?
يطلع عليهما ياته ويزكهه ويعلمه ملكتابة والحكمة وإنكاله
من قبله لفيضل المبين.
Let me put this in other words.
He goes through this four step process with you because he's getting you out of
darknesses into light.
This is how he does it.
This is, so that's what was introduced in Surah number 57 is now being explained
in Surah number 62.
And here Allah says, and they were utterly lost.
يكادوا من قبله لفيضل المبين.
They were utterly lost.
Imagine the imagery of Musa A.S. when he was lost in the desert with his family.
What was it that gave him guidance?
He in a distance, he saw what?
He saw light, right?
So we're in the darkness.
We're in Zadam.
We're in Zadal.
And then Allah gave light so that we have direction.
We have guidance.
Now, let's go back to Surah number 57.
Allah says, judgment day will come and believers will wake up on judgment day and
they're going to have يصعى نورهم بين ايديهم وبي ايمانهم.
They will have light coming from in front of them and from their right sides.
They'll have light coming out of them.
And this light, the one that's coming from us, from ourselves and from our right,
is actually been described as the light of Imam, the light of faith from our chest
and the light of our good deeds by our right hand, which is pretty cool.
Because يطلع عليهم آياته ويزكيهم is here.
And ويعلمهم الكتابة والحكمة is here.
Isn't it?
And that's the light that we're going to need on judgment day.
Now that light in this life, we have to preserve it.
Okay, Allah says, يجعلكم نورا تمشون به.
اتي انه سرط الحديد.
He says, He will put a light for you that you can walk in.
He'll provide a light for you that you can walk in.
Now the whole and then سرط التغابون, later on, the same surah that
calls judgment day يوم الجمع says, فَاَامِنُوا بِلَّهِ وَرَسُولِهِ وَنُوْدِ الَّذِيَ انْزَلْنَا
Believe in Allah, believe in His Messenger and believe in the light that we set down.
So now what is the light in سرط التغابون?
The Quran.
So there's a light on judgment day that I need to walk.
The Prophet is pulling people out of darkness into light.
And the Quran now itself is being described as light.
And so this light can become weak.
In human beings, it can become weak.
So with it, Allah do he created multiple institutions to re to re trigger the light.
Five times of prayer, the five prayers.
Allah describes the analogy of the person praying before Allah in
the surah of light, the passage of light.
The believer's chest is described as a niche inside of a wall.
In old homes, they used to build a little kind of Mehrab looking shape, cavity inside
a wall. You could put a candle in it and the light hits the curved wall and the light
spreads to the entire house.
Right.
And that niche, Allah gave the analogy of that and said, there's a lamp sitting in
that niche and it's spreading to the entire house.
But that lamp or that niche that Allah was describing is actually the rib cage.
And the lamp is actually the heart.
The heart.
And then the heart itself, Allah gave it light when he created us.
But then Allah sent a new light.
So what's the light?
The Quran itself and this outside light illuminates and lights it up and Allah
calls that Noor on a new light on top of light.
That's the analogy that Allah gave us in Surat al-Nui.
Now, having understood all of that, every time we come and by the way, that's in
that I,
interesting.
Here you're going to see, you know, Bayi and next I are going to see
the job.
Everything's connected.
Right.
The Quran is really amazing.
Intertextuality.
He says people who money or business and sales and trade does not distract them
from remembering Allah.
Wa iqamis-salaat and establishing the prayer.
Establishing the prayer.
Fi buyoutin adin Allahu an-tufa'u wa yuthkara fi asmoo.
There are homes in which Allah has allowed that his mention should be made
and they should be elevated.
Which homes is Allah talking about?
The masjids.
The masajid.
He's talking about the masajid.
Now, when we come to Jumu'ah, if you understand all of this imagery that I'm
giving you of light and of faith and how that's going to become turned into,
this is spiritual right now, light right now.
It's going to turn into real light on Judgment Day.
Where's actually going to be real darkness?
It's actually going to be a light coming out of us on Judgment Day.
Okay.
So this coming to Jumu'ah is us trying to strengthen our light.
To reinforce our light.
Now, when you stand in prayer every day, five times a day, you recharge your light
a little bit.
Okay.
So in cars, you need refueling every day, but every little longer, you need an oil
change and a little bit longer, you need to tune up.
Isn't it?
You should eat healthy every day, but then every so often you need to go to the
dentist and then every so often more, you need a full on cleaning.
And every there's a, there's immediate maintenance.
There's a little bit longer term maintenance and the super long term
maintenance, isn't it?
What spiritual maintenance every day for the Muslim?
It's the five prayers.
That's what cleans up the heart little by little.
That's the daily detox little by little.
Then every week there needs to be a major detox.
Okay.
Which is what?
That's Jumu'ah.
That's Jumu'ah.
And what's amazing about Jumu'ah is that if you study, there's a, there's only a
few khutbahs we have properly recorded of the Prophet.
So Allah, and I have a theory on why that is most of the time, even the
khutbah party was just telling people Quran already do that.
It was just reminding him of the Quran.
Literally, you know, he was gathering people and you're
going to add a, you're going to add a him.
I had to use that key and we are the moment, the
Jumu'ah was a, IA number two convention.
It was a gathering of just living IA number two every week.
Quran was being reinforced.
Quran was being reintroduced to the community.
And Allah is telling us in this last section that if you maintain the
spirit of the Friday prayer, because again, everything Allah gives us has a
letter and has a spirit and preserving the light inside is actually about the
spirit of it, isn't it?
If you can preserve the letter and the spirit of the Friday prayer, you will
not fall into the same trap that the people described in section number two
fell into.
That's why you should take this very, very serious.
Assalamu alaikum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world that are interested on top of
the students we have in studying the Quran and its meanings and being able to
learn that and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV, please do so and visit our
sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much and pray that Allah gives our mission success and we're
able to share the meanings of the Quran and the beauty of it the world over.
