Or as if Allah doesn't know what's really going on. This is important. We say it's easy to say Allah knows everything
easy to say
And then people say Assad, you know some people they do really bad things, but they don't look like they get punished
Like how come why why is Allah doing that?
And then you're like yeah, but what Allah is gonna like punish them on judgment day or what? Oh
So he has to explain to you what he's gonna do
This is how this works
Because when judgment day begins and everybody's about to be judged you're like hold on a lot
I just want to make sure this guy who stole my ketchup from McDonald's
Gets what he deserves
Now we may begin
Okay, we have this sense of entitlement that somehow Allah owes us an explanation
O makar Allah, who liyeq di aakum adal ghayb Allah says Allah does not is not going to be one to inform you of what he does in the unseen
Why does he have to tell you?
I
Gaming
We're Bush about me with silly
And I'll see you in a minute.
Surah Al-Jumu'ah, which is typical of this group of Surahs, especially the
Musabihaat, meaning the Surahs that begin with the Tasbih of Allah, the five of
them in this group, are very deep and loaded beginnings. So my intention is to
try and finish our discussion on the first ayah today. It looks unlikely, but I'm
going to not rush through it. I want to be able to cover everything that I wanted
to share with you in some detail, inshaAllah, and see how we progress. Anyway,
so the first conversation I want to have with you is about the word Tasbih or
the word Yusam Bihul that occurs in the ayah. Once again, in an easy translation,
the first part of this ayah is, whatever is in the skies and whatever is in
the earth, does and will continue to do Tasbih of Allah, meaning declares and
will continue to declare the perfection of Allah. One of the most important
studies in the Quran is the study of words. So Arabic is really unique because
every word has an etymology and an entire story behind it. So I just said
declares the perfection of Allah. That's an easy English translation. But behind
this word is imagery. This word Tasbih comes from Saba'a and Saba'a has some
images associated with it. So as we will go through this series of lectures,
every time we come across a word, we're going to go look in the background of
that word. Where does word come from? How are the Arabs using the associated
words? And then how do we get to the meaning of the word that we're dealing
with in this ayah? Okay, so those secondary meanings, those background
meanings, they help us get a deep understanding of the word that Allah is
using. So let's start with Tasbih, which is coming from the letters,
Sain, Ba and Ha. Those are the root letters of this word, Saba'a. Saba'a. Siba'a
were actually unstitched, hide or leather garments. I couldn't find a better
picture than that. But anyway, ancient times babies had clothes, but they didn't
have any stitching on the side. You just stick the arms in and the neck in and it
just flows, right? So it doesn't, you can't tell if the baby's fat or skinny
because it's all just kind of flowing. So that, which doesn't stick to the body,
right? Doesn't contour to the body. Those kinds of clothes were called Siba'a. It
also means to be stretched or extended out. Tasbih is used when you're stretching
leather. That's actually called Tasbih or stretching a string or a rope or
something like that. So so far we got the meaning of something that doesn't, you
know, dip down into the shape of the body and something that's stretched out,
leveled out. Then Tasbih is actually when you swim and you don't go underwater. So
you're swimming, but you stay above the water the whole time. If you go under the
water and you come up, that's called Al-Aun. It's a different word for swimming.
But Saba'a is actually, or Saba'a the verb is actually when you, when you don't
dip at all, you stay above. So now we've got this idea, this concept of something
stretched out like a straight line, something that doesn't dip into the body
of the child, and even a swimmer that doesn't dip under the water. He maintains
or she maintains the level. Fara Siba'a, Saba'a, a horse was described as Saba'a
that extends its legs out as far as it can. So when it gallops, it stretches its
legs out. So it's called Hasanu Mad-din-yadain-fil-jari, meaning it extends
as far as it can when it runs. So being extended and engaged without being
immersed. Likewise, like the swimmer who won't submerge, meaning the swimmer that
won't go down, the child's loose garment doesn't contour to the body and
thus doesn't immerse into the form of the child. That's why outer garments are
called Qisa'a Musab'ah, meaning spread out. Thus, constant activity with no
downtime. This is interesting. If you're working, working, working and you never
take a break, like the swimmer who never goes under the water, that's actually
called Saba'ah. And it's used for the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
when Allah says, Inna Laka'a Finna Haari, Saba'a An Taweela. You have long,
endless, breakless, you know, seamless tasks work to do where you're not going
to get any breaks. And that's called Saba'ah, maintaining. From this came the
idea of not being brought down in any way. In other words, I'm not going to say
anything about Allah that brings down His perfection. So the idea of this
be is maintaining or floating our concept of Allah and not letting it drown
even a little bit, or not letting it weaken even a little bit in any way,
right? So the way that the scholars talked about this, for example, what
doesn't be fit His Majesty's perfection. But some of it has to do with being
declared perfect. Meaning that you say something that is not appropriate for
Him, whether it's a partner or a child, or if you say Allah made
something without a purpose. By the way, that's philosophically all. Allah says
He created the skies and the earth with purpose. You know what that means? That
He created me with a purpose. But it also means every situation He created, He
also created with a purpose. Every disadvantage in my life was for a
purpose. Every advantage of my life was for a purpose. Every test was for a
purpose. You know, every ability and every disability was for a purpose. And the
moment I start thinking, I don't see the point why Allah did this, I pretty
look pretty purposeless to me that this be of Allah is going away. Because Allah
never does something without purpose, right? So that's important. Now,
An Yorab el-Basar, that He can be seen, you know, like I used to have a co-worker
back in New York when I was in college in 1864. And she told me, hey, you're
religious, right? I was like, a little bit. And she said, I saw God in my dream
last night. I was like, no, you didn't. It's like, no, I did. I was like, no,
that was the devil. That was the devil. It wasn't a, she said, then she said, he
looked like you. I was like, that was definitely the devil. Definitely the
devil. Okay.
And ta'alama mulaika tuhum ma'alami ya'alimhum. Or you know, saying something
like, you know, the angels saying that, you know, how can we know something you
didn't teach us? Even the angels claiming I could even know something that you
didn't teach us. This is subhanaka la'ilbalana illama alamtana. How perfect you
are. How can we know anything that you didn't teach us? Right? So even me
thinking I know something that didn't actually, you know, my knowledge, my
experience, my skill somehow came from somewhere other than Allah. Right? That's
also taking away from perfection of Allah. An yakhfa aleyhi makru shar. Or as if
Allah doesn't know what's really going on. This is important. We say it's easy
to say Allah knows everything. Easy to say. But then people are like, and we
easy to say Allah is fair. Allah is just. And then people say, Assad, you know,
some people, they do really bad things, but they don't look like they get
punished. Like, how come? Why? Why is all the doing that? Like, doesn't he know
that they did something bad? I'm like, do you know what you're saying? Who are
you talking about here? You're talking about Allah? And you're saying, doesn't
he know you don't know the answer to that question? You don't already know that
he knows? And then you're like, yeah, but what? Allah is going to like punish them
on judgment day or what? Oh, so he has to explain to you what he's going to do.
This is how this works. Because when judgment day begins and everybody's
about to be judged, you're like, hold on a lot. I just want to make sure this guy
who stole my ketchup from McDonald's gets what he deserves. Now we may begin.
We have this sense of entitlement that somehow Allah owes us an explanation.
Allah says, Allah is not going to be one to inform you of what he does in the unseen.
Why does he have to tell you? And you know, there's this disease that we have now
that, you know, things happen in my life, things happen in your life. And people
really question Allah. Why did that happen? Why did that happen to me? Right? And
then they say, my faith is in crisis until Allah reveals to me the secret behind
why this happened to me. Until I know why this happened to me. I don't know. I
don't know if I can trust Allah because I don't see the logic in it. He needs to
convince me of his logic before I can move on. This is the height of arrogance.
And it's all we don't. It's our dissatisfaction will be allow it to turn
into arrogance. Arrabbu Rabb, the master is the master. He doesn't owe me an
explanation. I have to humble myself before him. You know, I was when I was
teaching through the Dariyat. Ibrahim, alaihi salam's wife was very old. You
know that, right? And Allah sent the angels and what did the angels tell her?
You're going to have a baby. She could have been like, oh, yeah, now.
Well, I was 20, I was 21, 22, 30, 40. You want to come tell me I'm going to
have a baby when I can't even sit down without my bones cracking? Now I'm
going to have a baby. This is this is wisdom. This is what wisdom looks like.
This is the last plan. Huh?
She could have done that. Yes or no?
Because can she see the logic in it? No.
Can anybody see the logic in it? No.
All these years I'm living in depression because I can't give you.
Ibrahim, alaihi salam, a child.
And now, now when I'm probably going to die before he gets old, now you're going
to give me a child. What does the angel say there?
God, I keep calling Rambuki.
Inna hu hu al hakeemun Ali.
This is what you're this is exactly how your master said it.
We're just delivering the news.
I didn't come up with the policy. I'm here to deliver the package.
Just this one.
Qadali ki qadar Rambuki.
He has all the wisdom and he knows.
Meaning you need to trust what?
The wisdom of Allah. The wisdom of Allah is perfect.
The knowledge of Allah is perfect.
It's not like he didn't know my situation and then he made this decision or he
didn't consider everything before he made a decision.
He makes a decision knowing everything.
I'm the one who has lack in knowledge, not him.
I'm the one who has lack in wisdom, not him.
This is part of the tisbiha of Allah.
The absolute flawless nature of his lordship.
So the word tisbiha and we'll dive into this a little bit more.
Has also been used to describe the greatness of Allah.
But that's the secondary meaning.
The really the first meaning is we never think or say something about Allah
that is less than perfect of him.
OK. Now.
It says you sabbihu li-llahi.
Lil-lahi.
The laam, if you hear the li before Allah, you can say in Arabic you sabbihu
l-llahi. Perfectly good Arabic.
You sabbihu l-llahi.
OK. Like and what you sabbihu hu buqratan wa asila.
We don't say to sabbihu lahu.
We say to sabbihu hu.
So the laam, even if you don't hear it, it's still correct Arabic.
So then what's the laam doing there?
It creates two meanings.
What it creates the meaning tisbiha dan of Allah.
Meaning whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth is in fact doing
declaring Allah's perfection.
But the laam can also be ta'diya.
It creates a new meaning.
What does that mean?
Everything in the skies in the earth declares perfection of Allah for Allah.
Now, why is that important oven for?
What difference does it make?
The difference it makes is if I do something for someone,
if I did something for you, then I'm describing my intentions.
If I did something to you, I'm describing my action.
But if I just say I did something for you, then I'm describing my intention.
And if I say it was for you, that means I was sincere to you.
If the universe is doing tisbiha for Allah,
that means the universe is not being forced to do it.
They're genuinely doing it out of sincere intention.
Every creation Allah made that Allah made in its nature
actually recognizes how perfect Allah is and genuinely does tisbiha.
It's not being forced to do it.
Allah didn't force it to do tisbiha.
Allah is not tyrannical over his creation.
Everything, and that's why we find in the Qur'an,
itiyataw'an,
auqarhan,
qalata'atayna ta'ayn,
when Allah created the skies in the earth, he said to them,
you want to surrender willingly or unwillingly?
You want to be forced or do you want to be willing?
And they said, we surrender willingly.
So this willing tisbiha, Allah,
means that all of creation does a sincere praise of Allah.
They're not, you know, atheists like to argue,
why does your God like praise so much?
Why is he so?
And they use words like, why is he so narcissistic?
Why is he so self-centered?
Because whatever diagnosis they have of themselves,
they put that on to God because they have God complex themselves.
So they put that on to God.
And our response, first response, there's many responses to that.
But one of them is actually nothing praises him.
Because he demanded it.
Everything praises him because once they recognize him,
they have, they become compelled to do it on their own.
Just by the recognition of who he is,
which then leads to other, I told you, in some surahs,
there are, and by the way, one more thing about the tisbiha for Allah,
that refers to sincerity, right?
And these surahs will have one subject that came through all ten of these surahs.
What was it? You know?
Hypocrisy.
Hypocrisy and hypocrites have one major problem, which is what?
Sincerity, right?
So the very beginning phrase actually embeds sincerity
because that's going to be a problem that Allah is going to address
throughout these surahs.
OK, now, when tisbiha has mentioned in the past,
like everything has declared the perfection of Allah,
everything has been declaring the perfection of Allah.
It's as if Allah is saying this is an ancient truth and you're late.
Like this has been going on long before you even existed.
Everything was doing tisbiha.
Why do you think that if you don't do it, it's not going to happen?
Oh, it's been happening.
It's a lot bigger than you.
It's a lot older than you.
And the universe is just the universe we know is just the first sky,
the 13.9 billion light year old universe that we know is just the first sky.
And then there's the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh skies,
whose ages we can't even imagine.
And all of them have been doing what?
This be. So just imagine the volume of this be compared to even the earth's tisbiha.
And then within the earth, imagine the volume of this be that I do in one life span.
It's you can't even put the number of zeros you would have to put before you put the one
on the percentage of how much might this be counts in the existence of this be is so miniscule.
And the ages for which it has been going on is so large that it humbles me.
And it makes me realize me praising Allah doesn't benefit Allah in any way,
doesn't add to Allah in any way, doesn't secure Allah in any way, doesn't make him feel.
But human beings need praise.
Human beings need, you know, redemption.
Human beings need likes and heart emojis and fire emojis under their post.
They need that.
You know, Allah doesn't need acknowledgement for his acknowledgement to exist.
It's always existed.
And so that so you're and also, of course, I put here, you're not being asked of something new.
It's not like, why is Allah asking me this?
No, he's not asking you of this.
This is actually something that's existed much before you and in your very nature.
You're denying your own nature.
But this surah is about this be in the present and also the future.
What does the present actually tells you is this be?
Whether I do it or not, it's happening all around me.
It's actually already happening all around me.
In fact, it's even happening within my own body.
My blood cells are doing this be right now.
My skin cells are doing this be right now.
My nails are doing this be right now.
My heart is doing this be right now.
The way I describe this in surah hadid, I'm going to describe it the same way to you guys.
I want you to know that Allah is in control of everything, right?
But what he did for human beings is he also put most of our life out of our control.
Where was I going to be born?
Was that under my control?
Where am I going to die?
Is that under my control?
My genetics are they under my control?
My height, my skin color, my brain capacity, my thought process.
So was that under my?
Did I decide?
Did I have any say in that?
No, I don't have any say in that.
What people will come in my life?
What? What am I going to be allergic to?
What am I going to be?
What am I going to have a bad reaction to?
What sicknesses am I going to fall under?
What car will come hit me if I'm driving on the road?
None of this is under my control.
You understand?
Like there's so much most of my life is actually not under my control at all.
My list is not written by me.
It's written by Allah, Aziz and will that the three
of us will be able to decide where I'm going to die.
Nobody knows where they're going to die.
Right. I didn't decide who my siblings are, who my cousins are, who my parents are.
If you guys had a choice to choose who your siblings are going to be,
we'd be in very different families.
Some of us, right?
So the idea is not me.
I'm happy with my siblings.
But anyway, so you have then then Allah created a very, very small circle.
Little tightly think of it like a fence, small little fence inside me.
And in that fence, he gave me some freedom.
So he didn't give me the freedom to live outside this body.
He didn't give me the freedom to live outside my lifespan or which century
should I be born in?
He didn't give me any of those freedoms.
But within this small circle, he gave me the freedom to choose right from wrong.
That's it.
That's that's he did give me that freedom.
He gave me some operational freedom over my body.
Should I raise this hand or put it down?
He gave me that freedom.
You know, I don't say Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Just raise this hand.
No, no, he gave me the freedom to raise this hand.
He created this fence and inside that fence I can operate outside of it.
Everything he got complete control over it.
You understand?
No.
The things that are not under my control, like my blood flowing through my veins,
my heart beating, is that under my control right now?
No.
What is it?
Those things are doing to speak of Allah.
But that little circle in which I have choice.
That little circle.
In that circle, I choose not to do this bihafullah.
Sometimes.
Or not the way I should.
Not the way I should.
But that doesn't change the fact that everything around me and most of even me is actually still doing what?
This way even the atheist's heart is doing this bihafullah.
Even his heart, even his brain cells, every neuron that fires is doing this bihafullah.
The tongue that curses God is doing this bihafullah.
And that's why that tongue on judgment day is going to say,
Yeah, you made me do that.
But now Allah allowed me to.
Allah handed you the controller over this thing.
But today, the hand, the feet, everything starts speaking on judgment day.
That were already under Allah's command.
They were already doing this bihafullah.
You were the one forcing them to rebel.
So they say,
The one who makes everything speak today is making us speak.
So the way I describe even our bodies is like I used to watch a lot of Gundam anime stuff when I was younger.
Some of you might know or I don't know if you're more lame than you watch Power Rangers.
I don't know.
But you're underneath a gigantic robot and you're controlling it.
Right.
So Allah has handed you the controls over this body.
This body is not me.
This is just a robot.
That I've been given control over.
And then one day will come and I will lose control over this machine.
This machine will be taken away from me.
And then when it's regenerated, it will not be under my control.
Muhti'ina muknii r'uusim.
Allah says judgment day disbelievers are going to be staring straight at their punishment and running towards it.
The natural thing is if you see danger, first of all, you don't look at it.
And second of all, if you do see it, what do you do?
You run the other way.
Judgment day Allah describes people that disbelieve are looking at the fire, looking at the punishment,
and their heads are staring and they can't blink and they're running straight towards it.
What does that tell you?
Their bodies are no longer what?
There's no longer under their control.
The guy is being handed his book on his left hand behind his back.
He no longer has the power to what?
How bad is it?
He can't.
It's behind his back, on his left side.
He can't do it because the control has been taken away.
But right now we have limited control.
Anyway, so it's happening all around you and you're missing out.
When Allah says everything is already doing this, we have Allah and will continue to do so.
Actually, you should make you feel like maybe I should join that group, that part.
The rest of the universe is on board.
I'm the only one missing out.
This is called Qina'ya.
And Qina'ya is a big part of Quran.
Let me tell you what Qina'ya is.
Nowadays, people say this on TikTok.
Tell me something without telling me something.
Right?
That's Qina'ya.
Qina'ya means...
So, for example, if I say right now,
oh, it's kind of hot in here.
It's much better now because the doors are open.
But like, if I said it's kind of hot in here and the organizer said,
yes, it is.
Yes, it is.
Good observation.
You're not getting my Qina'ya.
I was saying, can we make it cooler?
But I didn't say that.
I just said what?
It's getting hot.
Or you come home and your child is there and you come home, you sit down,
you say, oh, I'm thirsty.
And your son looks at you and says, yeah, it makes sense.
You had a long day.
It's hot outside.
I said, I'm thirsty.
And he says, I heard you.
And it makes sense.
I can see what Qina'ya means.
Go run and get the water.
But you're not going to say that.
You're just going to say, I'm thirsty.
When Allah says everything in the skies and everything in the earth is doing
this, be and will keep doing this, be.
And you look, listen to that.
I said, that's so cool.
That's really cool.
Everything's doing this, be stupid.
It's telling you, do this, be.
That's called what?
Qina'ya.
When you study Quran, you have to keep an eye open for Qina'ya.
Okay.
This is, Allah is telling you something in between the lines and it doesn't
take a genius to understand that that's what's being said.
Okay.
Also, because the present and future is being mentioned, they will continue to do
this, be as if to say, I'm not going to be around forever.
I'm here for a little bit and I'm going to be gone.
But to this be how the law will remain, it will go on forever.
And so it and it's hinting at the future.
There's another, there's a subtle in the surahs.
Where the tasbih is mentioned in the future tense, something in the surah is
coming that's going to tie into the future.
Because the tasbih is also mentioned in the future.
So we're going to keep an eye open for that when we study surahs.
Because the tasbih is hinting towards the future.
Right.
So we'll see how that manifests itself.
Here's what's coming up in the next episode and this deeper look of surahs.
But then comes a much more difficult question.
If creation is imperfect, by the way, am I perfect?
No, are you perfect?
No.
Is anything in the world perfect actually?
No, the only one who's perfect is who is Allah.
So now here's the here's the problem is the philosophical problem.
The problem is if I see a beautiful painting, I say the artist is creative.
But then how could I see something imperfect and then say the maker is.
Perfect.
How can it's how can I say that it's perfect?
Because we're saying everything declares how perfect Allah is.
But everything itself is not perfect.
So how is it an evidence that the maker of it is perfect?
This is by the way, a very common atheist argument.
Oh, your God is so perfect.
What about cockroaches?
What about a rash on your skin?
What about my cousin?
Like God is so perfect.
The point is actually.
