The power of a gathering, when people are gathered together and they're hearing ideas.
If they're hearing powerful ideas, if they're hearing powerful and there's no more,
the world does not have more powerful ideas than the Quran.
That's the word of God, that's the word of Allah Himself.
If they were hearing these ideas week after week after week after week,
you don't think those people become powerful?
So all three things now come together, the solution was given in one,
the problem was described in two, and the practical steps now.
What must you do? That's now coming in this section, this remarkable section.
So let's begin with ayah number nine.
Ya ayyuhal ladheena amanoo idhanoodiya dis-salat min yaumil jumaa
Those of you who believe, idhanoodiya dis-salat when the call is made for the prayer,
min yaumil jumaa as part of the day of Friday, min tab'idiyya.
So you can translate this on the day of Friday,
but you can also translate this as from part of the day of Friday.
Because we're not being asked to pray all Friday,
we're being asked to pray only a part of the Friday, so min tab'idiyya.
fas'awiladiklilahi then rush to the remembrance of Allah.
wazarul bay'a and leave the sale.
That all of you is better for you if in fact you truly know.
That's the ayah that we're going to discuss.
The first thing I want you to note here is ya ayyuhal ladheena amanoo.
Those of you who claim to believe.
This phrase you should remind, remember always when you leave this phrase in the Quran,
it actually includes three groups of people.
I started the series with this word, wrapping it up with this too.
Madina had three kinds of believers.
The strongest believers, the...
Okay, haven't been tested yet believers?
And then the hypocrites and the middle category is being pulled towards the hypocrites
and Allah is pulling them towards iman, but on the outside they all claim to believe.
So when Allah says ya ayyuhal ladheena amanoo, all of them are being addressed together.
All of them are being addressed together.
And he says,
When the call is made,
I'll stop there for a moment before we get to the prayer part.
The call being made is referring to the azan, right?
The azan.
The word azan is not used in the Quran in the meaning of the azan the way we use it.
Or did the muazzin give the azan?
Was the azan of Jumran salamate?
Or was the azan of Maghrib called?
We use the word azan for the prayer call.
The Quran doesn't use that term.
The Quran uses the word nida.
Culturally we kind of became accustomed to using the word azan.
And what's the difference between azan and nida?
So I want you to understand that.
Azan actually means announcement.
Azan means announcement.
Nida means a call.
Nida means a call.
Okay?
What's the difference between an announcement and a call?
If I make an announcement, I just want you to know something.
When I call, what am I doing?
I'm saying come here.
There's a demand.
An announcement just gives information.
But a call makes a demand.
A call makes a demand.
So now the prayer the azan that we give is actually called a call.
Now let's go through quickly.
Let's just go through just the opening of the azan.
Every part of the azan is actually a call.
Okay?
And you have to see the qunaya in the call.
Remember qunaya?
Saying something without saying something?
The first part of the azan is Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar.
Isn't it?
Allah is greater.
Allah is greater.
The wrong translation is Allah is the greatest.
That would be Allahu Gual Akbar.
This is not Afdal Tafdeen.
There's no Lamat Tariq on it.
There's no Lamat Tafdeen on it.
This is Allahu Akbar, which means Allah is greater.
In that phrase, there is a call.
Hey, you're fixing your car right now.
You heard Allahu Akbar.
Allah is greater than the need to fix your car.
You're having a sandwich right now.
Allahu Akbar.
Allah is greater than your need to add more ketchup and go for another sandwich.
Go towards the salar.
You're in the middle of studying for your exam right now.
You heard Allahu Akbar.
Allah is greater than the need for your review for this exam.
In other words, there's a necessary comparison with anything you're doing to the call.
That's the first thing.
When you say,
When you testify to this, it is as if Allah is saying those who accept this message,
those who prove that they accept this message,
just like you're called to Islam, you're being called to the prayer.
Actually.
The testimony, because we're already Muslim.
Why do we need to hear,
Ashadu-Allah-Lah-Lah-Lal-Allah.
We're like,
Yeah, I am more Muslim family,
or somebody became Muslim two years ago was like,
Yeah, I did that two years ago.
Why are you saying it every prayer, bro?
Ashadu-Allah-Lah-Lal-Allah.
I took the Shahada in front of the machine.
Everybody gave me a high five minute to clear and I hug.
I was all hooked out for three hours.
Then they left me alone and nobody talks to me now.
Right.
The new Muslim story.
Right.
Why am I hearing the Shahada over and over again?
It's as if the claim, this testimony, you need to prove it.
You need to prove the ultimate proof that you accepted this faith is actually the prayer.
It's actually the prayer.
Where do we get this idea from?
It's actually spelled out in the Quran too.
In Surah Al-Qiyamah in Surah number 75 Allah says,
Fala Sadaqat Walaa Salla.
He says he didn't accept the truth and he didn't pray.
He didn't accept the truth and he didn't pray.
What does that mean?
Had he accepted the truth,
I'm going to pray it.
You find in Surah Al-Bakr something really interesting.
You remember before the Ka'bah,
the Muslims used to pray towards Jerusalem.
Right?
They used to pray towards Jerusalem.
And then Allah changed the direction.
When Allah changed the direction back towards the Ka'bah,
some of the Jewish community started making fun of the Muslims.
Well, what happened?
You had the wrong address the whole time?
So what happened to all those prayers you were praying in the wrong direction?
Those don't count, huh?
Allah says, Allah responds to this criticism.
And he says,
Wa Ma Kaan Allahu Wa Ma Kaan Allahu Di Uli A'i Maanakum.
Allah will not waste your iman.
But they weren't saying, Allah will not waste your iman.
They were saying, Allah will waste your prayer.
But Allah said, Allah will not waste your iman.
You use the word iman instead of using the word prayer.
Teaching us that to Allah, iman and prayer are one and the same.
When you hear,
Ashadu Alla Ila Allaha Illa Allah,
Ashadu Alla Muhammad Ar-Rasulullah,
that is iman, isn't it?
And iman should translate immediately to me as what?
Prayer.
Should translate as prayer.
Hayya' ala s-salaa,
I mean you can't get, that's not even Ken'ayah.
Come pray now.
You get it?
Let's go.
But Hayya' ala al-Falah is really cool.
Hayya' ala al-Falah.
Come to success.
We're going to see the word success here too, soon.
It's a really interesting word, Falah.
Falah and Arabic is to break something.
So break the earth, break a rock.
And the farmer breaks the soil
and plants the seed.
And when the farmer finally breaks it again,
is when he's plucking his crop, when it's already,
and he's breaking the soil and he's taking out,
it's called the harvest season,
at that time he's called the muflih.
That's when he's called the muflih.
And that season is Falah season.
Falah season.
And like, for example, in Palestine,
there are certain people, they're known as the farmers,
and that's actually even a tribal region, al-Falahin.
Right, al-Falah, in Palestine, al-Falahin,
like they're farmers.
And they have that farming tradition.
Now the idea of al-Falah is come towards something
that will lead you to harvest season.
You're planting, every sula, you're planting a seed,
and you're going to pull that seed out on judgment day.
And every sula you're planting a seed,
and you're going to lead to some kind of success
in this life and in the next.
Inna sula tataanhaa al-fahshaa'i wal-munkah.
Allah is actually calling you towards success.
Which is pretty amazing.
The adhan saying, come be successful.
Come be successful.
People ask, like, I go to university,
it's really hard to pray, can I not pray?
Can I just pray later?
Like, at the end of the semester, make the whole semester up during the summer.
And then you wonder why you didn't pass any of your tests.
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know and encourage you
that I want you to sign up for bayinatv.com
and help other sign up, even sponsor students for bayinatv.com
so we can create worldwide communities of students
that are studying the meanings and the benefit and the wisdom of the Quran
and are insha'Allah ta'ala spreading that in their own circles.
Thanks so much.
Allah says, come succeed.
You're like, no, I want to fail.
Ha, ya'al fadaah.
Then He says, qad qamat as-sadaah.
The prayer is already in the Qama even.
Qad qamat as-sadaah.
The prayer is stood.
Come on, get up.
And even standing is really remarkable
because standing should remind us of ya'ul mul standing.
Right?
So the entire adhan is actually a call.
I wanted to just give you an appreciation of this word,
how that's different from an announcement.
Of course, we see it as an announcement now, as an announcement for prayer,
but actually we should see it as a call for prayer.
So ya'ayu al-adheena amanu idha nudiya.
Let's go to the second word now.
Actually, before it goes to the second word, nudiya is a passive verb.
Passive verbs mean you don't know who did it.
So it's not when the caller calls, nadaa munad in this sadaa.
It's actually nudiya when the call is made.
When the call is made.
You know what that means?
That means it's irrelevant who made the call.
If it's bilal who gave the adhan, go.
If it's Allah that gave the adhan, go.
If it's Abu Bakr gave the adhan, go.
If it's Abu Dahl Ghafari who gave the adhan, go.
If it's a new Muslim, you just became Muslim two days ago
and gave the adhan, go.
If you're in a, you know, Baghledesi neighborhood
and you're not Baghledesi and you heard the adhan from a Baghledesi, go.
Does it matter where the adhan came from?
No.
The only thing that matters is your call to the prayer.
You know what that does?
The people that are going to lead the prayer,
the people that are going to be the congregation,
where they're from, who they are, none of that matters now.
All that matters is the call was made.
Now some people could say, I'm going to go attend a Juma.
Like I went to, when I was in Rome, it was Juma one of the days I was there, it was Juma.
So I had to find a masjid to go pray Juma.
And the khudbah was in Arabic, which was really cool.
And the rest of the khudbah was in Italian.
That was so cool.
Also, I felt like I was watching something on Netflix or something.
It was pretty epic.
But I didn't understand, I mean I just, Alhamdulillah, the Arabic part I understood.
But like the Italian part, I didn't understand a word.
But people are like, yeah, and I was like,
but it doesn't matter.
There's many times, when I was in Malaysia, I'll go attend a Juma in a masjid
where the khudbah is going on in Bahasa Malaya.
I don't understand the language, but I'm sitting and listening.
There were times in New York, I'm late for Salah or I need to go to a masjid,
but that masjid is too far.
And it was actually on 2nd and 11th Avenue, there was a Bangla Dish masjid.
And they gave the khudbah since the 1920s, I think.
They're giving khudbah in Bangla. They still give khudbah in Bangla.
It's like, oh, I sit there, Kim and I sit there, and I just sit there, and I listen to the khudbah.
No problem. Why?
Because it doesn't matter where the call is coming from.
You're going to go because there's Juma. That's it.
This is an incredible thing that Allah did.
Because what happened in many different religions
is that the religion actually became very ethnic.
Like even in America, there's a black church, there's a Spanish church,
there's a Guatemalaj, there's a Cuban church, there's this church, there's that church.
For the Muslims, you could have, okay, there's an Albanian community here.
But this is not an Albanian masjid, this is just a masjid.
There's no restriction on anybody coming,
and you shouldn't be feeling like you're out of place, you're in Allah's house.
That's it. Allah's house feels like Allah's house.
And this is a remarkable thing that Allah captured in the word Nudia.
This is one of the most powerful features of Islam.
I met a young man when I was 20 at the time.
This is a long time ago. The year was 1875.
And this was in Brooklyn.
I go to pray Juma at the masjid in Bedford, Brooklyn.
I go to Imam's Salaaj's masjid, I go there maybe an hour before the Juma.
Just sit there and recite some Quran.
I'm going to be there and I see this guy sitting there.
He's just just by himself.
I'm going to make some friends with this guy. I go to start talking to him.
And he says, yeah, it's my first time.
I was like, really? What were you doing before?
And he said, well, I was studying.
First, I was born in a Christian family, but I decided to start studying the Bible.
And then when I started studying the Bible, I felt like we're not following the Bible in the church.
And so I decided that I'm going to take the Bible more seriously.
Then I looked up who actually studies the Bible in its original language.
And I found out it's the Jewish community.
And New York has a lot of synagogues and, you know, temples and things like that, Jewish temples and stuff.
So I joined a synagogue and I learned Hebrew for over two years.
And I studied the Bible and he started doing this when he was 16 years old.
He was now 18, 19 years old.
Right?
And he just started studying the Bible and he goes and I've been in the Jewish community a long time,
but they made it clear to let me know that I'm not truly Jewish because I'm converting.
Because I'm not from the children of Israel.
And they made sure that I understand that different.
I understood that I'm a Gentile.
I got that.
It's in the Bible.
That's how it is.
And then one day I just kind of passed by this place and they were praying and I just decided to just,
I didn't know what it was, but I thought it looked a little bit like the Jewish prayer
because the Jews also have Qiyam and Rukour.
They have some of these things.
So he joined the prayer and the musted.
And he didn't even know what he's doing.
He just joined it.
And then he looked around and he saw black people.
He saw Arabs.
He saw brown people.
He saw white people.
He saw every color you can find in one row.
And they're all saying, said, I'm to each other and they're all hanging out together.
They're eating together.
And he's just like, I don't, I don't, I mean, I've seen this kind of diversity at a train station.
Oh, why is there this much?
What kind of church is the church?
At least you got to have some, at least some similar color.
These people are from different cultures and different languages.
The thing that brought him to Islam was how it was actually just the call is made.
Everybody showed it.
Wa a'a sareena minhum lamma yalhaqubiya.
And that itself is a demonstration of the power, the might of Islam.
Allah being Al-Aziz Al-Hakeem, it shows inside, like in every house of Allah.
And as the more the world globalizes, right?
The more diversity you see in every house of Allah, it's such an incredible thing.
I don't think we realize how powerful that is.
We don't even realize what we're sitting on.
It's so, so powerful.
This thing is so powerful that actually the Jum'ah became dangerous.
The Jum'ah became dangerous because if the Imams can teach the people to connect with the Quran
and see the world around them through the word of Allah,
they might start pointing out things that are wrong in society and not accept them.
Or start challenging some things in society that are wrong.
So what happened, for example, when the British took over India,
they wanted to control, the first thing they did is they wanted to control
and change the system of education so the Indian Muslims will no longer study Arabic.
And they replaced Arabic with English education.
And over a couple of generations, for example, what they did with the Muslims in Algeria
and Morocco and Tunisia, other places, what the French did is,
now Algerian youth know more French than they know Arabic.
So you don't have to attack the Quran.
You don't have to do that.
You just have to make sure that when Yatlu alayhim, ayaatihi is happening,
they're just sounds.
They just become Himmari, yahmelu asfara.
So they don't process anything.
And that way, you can have Jum'ah without having Jum'ah.
You understand?
So what if thousands of them are gathered together and they hear something,
they can't make any sense of it?
And then in other places, what happened is, then the instructions were given,
we will tell you what to say.
We're going to tell you what to say in the Friday sermon.
You're going to talk about how you have to wear leather socks,
or how long your beard is supposed to be, or how high your pants are supposed to be,
or the benefits of the day of Friday,
or some story of this or a story of that.
Don't talk about the Quran.
If we find out you're talking about this surah,
if we find out you're talking about that ayaat, it's not going to be good for you.
So the sermon got controlled.
The sermon that was supposed to unfiltered connect people directly with the word of Allah
was now, it was too powerful.
The Khubbah is too powerful.
It's too, you know, people are coming and it has this divine power
that you don't have to make an announcement.
You know, when I'm coming here for this program,
I have to announce it on social media.
I have to let you guys know.
And we have to make sure that other people find out and there has to be some,
the local community has to send emails and maybe send WhatsApp messages
or blackmail your neighbor or something.
I don't know.
But does anybody need an announcement to come to Juma?
Is there a weekly please come to Friday prayer?
No.
And the people who are knowledgeable come, the people who are not knowledgeable come,
the people who understand the language come,
the people who don't understand the language come,
the taxi driver comes, the taxi customer comes,
the restaurant owner comes, the restaurant customer comes,
the boss comes, the employee comes, everybody shows up.
On their end, no announcement.
Every week.
Every, and you know, the power of a gathering.
When people are gathered together and they're hearing ideas,
if they're hearing powerful ideas, if they're hearing powerful,
and there's no more, the world does not have more powerful ideas than the Quran.
That's the word of God.
That's the word of Allah Himself.
If they were hearing these ideas week after week after week after week,
you don't think those people become powerful?
You don't think those people become independent thinkers?
They become analytical?
They develop the mindset of Ibrahim A.S. who questions everything around him?
They don't develop that?
There's something so powerful about,
إذا نودي لصلاة من يوم الجوعة as a part of the day of Friday.
This is not just this, this, I could be discussing with you,
there are a hadith, you can look them up yourself.
I was going to make that part of this lecture today.
There are a hadith about the rewards of coming early on the day of Friday.
You know them.
Why is the day of Friday so blessed?
You know that stuff.
You've heard that stuff a bajillion times.
So I don't have to teach you that stuff because you already know it,
and you can easily look it up.
I want to talk to you about the dimension of Jumu'ah that's been forgotten.
The immense power of the Jumu'ah of the Baa.
It is a weekly convention of the Muslim community, and it's open.
نوديا also means that it allotted not your being called,
but since the call is open, even a non-Muslim walking by can sit in and listen in.
I'll tell you, I wish I could tell you this is made up, it's not made up.
I was in the West Indies, okay, in Jamaica actually, in Jamaica.
It was an Islamic convention in Jamaica.
And I met the grand mufti of the Jamaican Muslim community.
And he's an Indian fellow, and he, crazy story,
he was born in a Hindu family in Jamaica,
and his family wanted him to learn Hinduism.
So they sent him to the capital of Hinduism.
Where did they send him?
They sent him to India.
They sent him to India, and he had this address to go to, to go study,
and the door down from the Hindus was the Muslims,
and he went to the wrong door.
And there was, he did.
He got the wrong directions, and he went inside the wrong door,
and there was Juma going on, he sat in, and he came back a mufti,
and he's the mufti of West Indies Muslim community.
Because the Juma is what?
Is it an open invitation?
Is it remarkable what Juma does?
It's incredible what it does.
Anybody can sit in.
I had a friend, I won't name him because he'll get embarrassed.
He's non-Muslim.
I was travelling with him one time, and we were in a Muslim country,
and I was about to go to Friday prayer, and he said,
can I come?
I was like, yeah, you can come.
Come on.
So he comes with me, he goes, is everybody gonna notice?
I was like, you're wearing, I'm wearing a t-shirt.
I was like, oh no.
It's summer in the Arab world.
Everybody wearing a t-shirt, bro.
He's like, they all look normal.
I was like, prayer's starting.
Just, what do I gotta do?
Just sit here like everybody else.
So he sits like everybody else.
We're just sitting quiet.
There's a bus going on in Arabic.
He doesn't understand anything that's going on,
but he's sitting there, and he just notices people come in,
and they sit down.
Nobody looks at anybody else.
The people just respectfully sit down and listen,
and then they all get up to pray, and then he joins the prayer.
And he's like, well, how am I gonna pray?
How am I gonna resist all of everybody, man?
Just do what everybody else is doing.
You'll be fine.
Okay?
It was okay.
So he just prays with everybody.
He hears the qir'a of turaqah, salah is done, we'll walk it out.
I was like, so, how was that?
He goes, man, I gotta tell you.
I've been to therapy.
I've been with my bros.
I've been to bars.
I have never felt that much peace in my entire life.
Straight.
He's just the first impression.
I've never felt this.
I don't know what it was, but I've never felt this much peace
in my entire life.
Subhanallah.
There's something so powerful about that gathering,
I'm telling you.
There's the descent of angels over these gatherings,
especially on the day of Friday.
We're living the word, we're living Surat al-Jumu'a, every Jumu'a.
We're living the word of Allah, every Jumu'a.
This is,
Ifa nudiya dis-salati min yawm al-Jumu'a.
It's on the emphasis on the act as opposed to...
Now, I was curious about the word the call.
The call has been made.
And I found another place in the Quran where nudu is used,
and they were called.
They were called,
nudu an tilku wal jannah.
They were called, that's jannah.
And here in this world, we're being called to jumu'a.
And in the next life, we're being called to jannah.
And the same word for call is being made.
As if there's a conflation over the two.
Us rushing into this,
is insha'Allah turning into us rushing into that,
built by Allah's mercy.
Here's what's coming up in the next episode
and this deeper look of Surat al-Jumu'a.
That's a great sunnah of the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
But if somebody who's Arab or speaks Arabic,
starts talking about, you know, how we should help our young men and women
become more independent and become financially responsible
so they can get married early.
But he says all of that in Arabic to a Turkish community.
And he says all of that in Arabic to a Bangladeshi community.
Did any of them hear anything about the ayat of Allah?
They didn't.
That's actually what I'm shared with you is inspired by the ayat of the Quran.
The Quran talks about these issues.
You know, it talks about financial independence
and how you have to become related to marriage.
So this is an important issue that the community needs to hear
but now they can't hear because it's only being said in Arabic.
And the problem with that is, Allah never said the Arabic language is sacred.
The sacred words in the Arabic language are sacred.
Quran is sacred, not Arabic.
When I say,
When I say,
That's not more Islamic.
