We're just just imagine for a moment every time you enter a surah, you're entering into one of Allah's palaces.
This surah from Allah is a gift sent from above the seven heavens to humanity
and you're entering something that the world did not have access to it.
This came from way way above and it came as a gift to humanity.
We'll take a deep look at Surat Al-Jumu'ah as deep as I can do at least
and there's still endless oceans left after whatever I'm able to do.
But whatever I try to do, I will try to simplify as much as possible.
That's how humanity was sent down. There's a mindset that's taught in the Zayat.
You know the Quran is not just information, it's a mindset. What is priority?
So what Allah says, whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth
declares the perfection of Allah. Is there a special stress on the earth?
You understand. So you'll find in most of these surahs wherever Tasbih has mentioned
there's a special stress on the earth.
And what's really cool is Allah will mention that special stress on the earth
and immediately in the next ayah
Surat Al-Jumu'ah
Peace be upon you.
Alhamdulillah, Lord of the worlds.
Peace be upon the Sadaqah, the messengers, his family and companions.
We've been waiting for him to come to Yuma-ddin.
Allah has made us from them, from those who believe and do righteous deeds
and are in the right path and are patient and secure, Lord of the worlds.
I'd like to first express to you how excited I am and how happy I am to see so many of you
and I know that many of you have driven long distances to come and attend this program.
Insha'Allah Ta'ala, I pray to Allah that he counts all of this as ibadah for him
and that he includes us among that hadith that was mentioned by the Imam.
Khayru kumman ta'alam al-Qur'anah wa'alamahu.
The best of you are the ones who learn the Quran and then teach it.
So what I'm going to start with is an introduction just so you all have an idea
how these lectures are going to go, how these discussions are going to go
and what the plan is for them.
For this entire week, if those of you that are committed to coming the entire week with me,
we're going to be studying Surah al-Jumu'at.
So we're going to be just doing one Surah of the Quran and it's only 11 ayat.
It's not long at all.
So it's only 11 ayat, but it's going to take us a whole week to study that Surah.
Somebody asked me on the way here, actually a volunteer asked me on the way here,
are you going to be like very high level or are you going to talk to the rest of us?
So I need to address that question.
My job is to try to study the Quran as deeply as I can
and address some of the hardest questions I can address.
In my own investigation with my team, with other researchers and scholars.
And then that's the easy part of my job.
The hard part of my job is to learn all of whatever I can learn
and then to simplify it so that human beings can understand it.
Because scholars and students, they speak some kind of alien language
that the rest of us don't understand.
So I need to make sure that I explain things to you in a way
that makes sense to you, that you can grasp.
Some concepts are difficult, they're more complicated,
but I'm going to do my best to keep things as simple as possible.
So there's two different things.
One, you want to talk about complicated things,
but two, you want to talk about them in simple language.
And you have to have that balance.
Because sometimes people just talk about simple things,
that's not healthy because life is complicated.
There are some complicated things we need to talk about.
And then what happens is when people know,
people have more knowledge than they start using more complicated language
to talk about that, you know, university professor language,
and then nobody understands.
And then those discussions remain in certain circles in the society
and everybody else doesn't get it.
And this is actually the problem that I felt myself
and I feel that pain for you.
So what I try to do in Sha'Allah and these lectures is yes,
we will take a deep look at Surat al-Jumu'ah,
as deep as I can do at least.
And there's still endless oceans left after whatever I'm able to do.
But whatever I try to do, I will try to simplify as much as possible.
Now, having said that, I'm going to speak to you for about 40 minutes,
45 minutes at a time.
The moment I see some of you traveling into the spiritual world,
some of you do this in very creative ways.
Some of you look like you're just really concentrating on the material,
like, you know, other people fight it.
They fight it by agreeing with me a lot.
Like even if I'm not saying anything, they're like,
like slowly declining.
I've seen the brothers do this a lot,
like they'll be sitting in the masjid floor,
they're sitting, for instance, sitting like this,
and they're sitting like this, and they're sitting like this.
And eventually, you know.
So, but 40 minutes at a time, then I'm going to give you guys a break.
I know there's lots of sisters, lots of brothers here.
So what I'm going to try to do in those breaks,
the breaks will be five to seven minutes long.
I believe Maghrib is around 9.20, so we have about two hours before Maghrib.
Tomorrow onwards, I'll start exactly at seven o'clock,
because I want to make the most of the time we have.
So seven, maybe five to 10 minute break in those breaks,
you can come up to me or I can go in that middle area so I can hear from brothers and sisters.
We can have some conversations, take whatever questions.
The breaks are dedicated for questions and discussions and comments.
Those are the most valuable pictures can wait.
I'm here a whole week.
We'll figure out a system and we'll do all the pictures you need to do.
No problem. I have no problem with it.
But in the breaks, I'd rather just focus on conversations.
This is what I'm going to do, but now let me tell you what I expect from you.
This week, I want you to use your imagination.
If you walked into a historical palace, an ancient palace,
when you walk in, people walk in with their cameras,
and they're making video of every door and every decoration
and the ceiling and the windows and all that stuff, right?
Or the artwork on the wall or the calligraphy and things like that, right?
Tourists are just, wow, this is amazing, that kind of thing, right?
Because this represents the work of a great king of the past.
Just imagine for a moment, every time you enter a sura,
you're entering into one of Allah's palaces.
This sura from Allah is a gift sent from above the seven heavens to humanity.
You're entering something that the world did not have access to it.
This came from way, way above.
And it came as a gift to humanity.
Tanzilum merrabil alameen.
What happens in the Quran, if you've even read the Quran in translation,
you will know the Quran has a lot of repetition, right?
The Quran talks about judgment day, and then it talks again about judgment day,
and again about judgment day.
The Quran talks about one prophet, like Musa'a alayhi s-salam,
and it'll talk about him again and again and again and again, right?
So there are many subjects in the Quran that keep repeating.
And what happens to you and me is when we look at that and we say,
oh, I already know that part.
Oh, I already read that before.
I've seen that before.
Show me something new.
Where's the cool stuff?
Where's the new stuff?
Because we're always into something new, right?
And now because of TikTok and Instagram and all this other stuff and YouTube reels,
now we're addicted to something new.
Like you can't, if you're watching one clip, one clip,
then you see an older clip.
I've already seen this.
You get annoyed if you see something you've already seen.
So we become addicted to newer forms of entertainment.
But the way I want you to think about this,
the way I describe this to my students is every surah is like a palace designed by Allah.
And there's another palace designed by Allah and they may have similar bricks,
or they may have similar windows.
But does that make them the same palace?
No.
Are the doors being used exactly in the same way?
Is the flow exactly the same?
Is the exterior and the interior exactly the same?
No, every bit of art has its own unique identity, doesn't it?
Think of an easier example nowadays.
Forget about architecture.
Think about cars, right?
There's one manufacturer, clearly a couple of big manufacturers in this town, right?
And they have lots of different models.
And those models have a lot in common, don't they?
But each model has its own unique identity too, doesn't it?
It has its own features.
Unique exterior, interior, the mechanics, the technology.
There's some variation all the time.
What I want you to think about when you study the Quran is you're not trying to study the entire Quran.
Just give yourself to one surah.
Really give yourself to one surah.
And this surah is super short.
It's like not even two pages.
It's really, really short.
So what I want you to do this week is just the whole week,
read this surah over and over again.
Just before this lecture, after this lecture, just read the surah and ask yourself,
what is Allah saying here?
What does He want from me here?
What does this mean?
Ask whatever questions come to your mind.
Start documenting your questions about this surah.
The questions I want to discuss with you in this week,
I'll take some of your other questions too.
But I don't want to hear your, like, don't worry about the questions about nail polish or halal meat from McDonald's
or just, you know, those questions will be there before this program
and those questions will be there after this program.
But you know what?
Let's surrender our questions to the Quran for a week.
I'm calling it Quran week because I want this to be a week of just Quran for you.
You just immerse yourself completely into it.
Now, we're going to start talking about surah al-Jum'ah because we are short on time.
These slides are not there to make your life easy at all.
They are there to make my life easy.
Okay, so this is you getting, you know how when you use an app, it's easy to follow,
but you don't see the programming code behind it.
I'm showing you some of the code, not all of the code, some of the code,
but that's for me to navigate so you get some idea.
If you, even if you take these pictures, you're not going to use them in your, like,
you're never going to look at them again.
But that's okay.
But I'm still going to walk.
This helps me organize my thoughts and everything I want to share with you.
Some of these things you can take a picture of, you might benefit from,
but most of the time it is complicated.
So don't trust the slides.
You know those professors that put a slide on the screen and everybody's focused on the slide
and nobody's listening to the professor?
That's what I don't want happening.
This is for me as my aid.
What will help you is my explanation.
That's what's going to help you.
So don't turn this into a distraction for yourself.
Regardless, in my study of the Quran, I've come to believe that the surahs of the Quran are in groups.
They are in groups.
So, you know, there's 114 surahs in the Quran, right?
And you'll see, for example, Surat al-Baqarah.
What's after Surat al-Baqarah, people?
Ali-Imran, what's after Ali-Imran?
Nisa and what's after Nisa?
Ma'ida.
So, Baqarah, Ali-Imran, Nisa and Ma'ida are four very large surahs.
All four of them were given to the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, when he was in Medina.
So, they're very large and they're all from Medina and they're all together.
So, those four surahs are a what?
They're a group.
And when you study them carefully, you will see there's very deep connections between the four surahs.
They are together for a reason.
When you go further in the Quran, you look at Surat al-Alam and Surat al-A'raf, two very large Makkan surahs.
So, there were four Maddini surahs and then two what?
Makkan. Makkan surah means the Prophet got them when he was in Makkah, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, right?
Those two surahs are very, very large.
Makkan surahs are usually not that large.
There are some relatively, but these are the largest ones.
And these two are together and they're very closely related to each other.
They become a group, just a group of two.
And then you see two very large Maddini surahs again.
Anfaal and Tawbah.
And they're also deeply connected to each other.
So, what that does is you're studying a surah, but you also have to figure out what neighborhood does it belong to?
Which group does it belong to?
Which other surah complements it?
And what group of surahs came before?
And how is the conversation proceeding?
In every book, many of you are university students or university graduated.
In any book, in any subject, there is a logic to the sequence.
If you can't understand what the logic is to the sequence, you can't understand the book.
You can't make sense of it.
But a lot of times in our study of the Quran, we think that this order of the Quran is just something that the Muslims decided to agree on.
But this is actually not the real order of the Quran as intended by Allah.
I strongly disagree with that philosophy.
I believe Allah Himself said,
A book in which its ayat were stitched together.
Stitch together when you stitch something.
Every stitch is perfectly placed or no.
Every stitch is exactly where it's supposed to be.
And the word, the fact that even Allah called it Kitab.
Kitab doesn't mean speech.
Kitab means what?
Book and book is not a Word document.
A book is not a Google Doc.
A book back in the day is something that was carved or scratched.
When you carve something or write something or scratch something, can you change the order anymore?
No, so if Allah is calling the entire Quran a Kitab, this actually among many other evidences,
the book was intended to be in this order from Allah.
From Allah.
Just like when you say,
Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim, Malik Yom Iddin, there's an order, right?
And you cannot change that order.
You cannot say,
Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim first, Alhamdulillah, Ar-Rahman Ar-Rahim, second.
You can't do that.
There's a set order.
The same way there's an order within the ayat of the Quran,
there's an order to the entire Quran.
And when you observe that order, you learn a lot.
So we're going to go into every ayah of the Surah,
but first I want you to know what neighborhood does it belong to, right?
And this is right next to another group of Surahs.
So I'm going to start there.
This is Surah number, by the way.
Anybody know the Surah number?
Very good.
62.
The group before this one is 50 to 56.
Qaf Tawakya.
That's the previous group.
And that group is all Makki Surahs.
When I say Makki Surahs, what do I mean?
Surahs given to the Prophet, S.A.W. in Makkah, right?
In the early period, the first 13 years.
Those Surahs have a lot of commonalities.
I've already covered a series of those Surahs.
And in those Surahs, one of the things you learn is Allah is constantly warning those who don't believe.
He's warning people who don't believe in the afterlife.
He's warning people who don't believe in the Quran.
He's giving them warning.
So the people in Makkah who don't believe are the target audience,
and particularly the wealthiest among them.
So actually, it's also a mistake to think,
Oh, the Quran was attacking everybody in Makkah.
I was criticizing all these Makkah Mushriqin.
It wasn't like that.
Actually, the Quran, when it attacked, or when it was aggressive,
it was aggressive with the elite of Makkah,
the elite politicians, the multi-millionaires, etc.,
who were using their money and their influence to attack Islam.
Those were the ones it was coming after.
They're called Al-Mutrafeen.
They're called Mata'ana bihi az-wajam.
And different phrases are used in the Quran to describe that group of people,
and Allah goes after them directly.
And you will study.
If you study Quran carefully, especially Makkah in the Quran,
you will find Allah keeps highlighting,
Have you seen the one who has this much money and he doesn't give?
Have you seen the one who wastes his money like this?
Have you seen the one who, you know,
spends to make sure that people don't listen to the Quran, etc.?
They say this, they say this.
It's not everybody who's saying this.
There's a group of people that have a lot of power and a lot of money,
and they're using that power and influence and money
to attack the mission of the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
and the Quran is responding to them.
The huge population of Makkah, many of them,
they're just quietly watching what's happening.
They're not on this side or that side, they're just spectators, you understand?
And that's actually what happened when Islam won.
Then many of them came to the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
and said, What is this?
Like, is this a new?
I see that you guys broke all the idols.
What's going on?
Is there a party?
And then the Quran said,
If one of the Mushrikiin comes to you,
one of the idol worshipers comes to you,
and says they want your protection, give them your protection
until they hear the speech of Allah, because they didn't know.
Some of them didn't even know.
We read the 23 years of the Seerah of the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
from Revelation, and we think everybody knew what was happening.
No, some people were at home playing on their PlayStation,
they had no idea what's happening outside.
And they finally got out to do the groceries, and they're like, What is this?
The world had changed.
So Allah says,
That's because these people had no idea.
Give them their space.
The same way that the Quran criticizes these Mushrikiin,
this group, 62, Surat Al-Jum'ah,
starts with Surah number 57, Surat Al-Hadeed,
and it ends with Surah number 66.
So 57 to 66, these are 10 Suras,
and they're all Madani, what does that mean?
Given to him in Madina, these are short Madani Suras,
one after the other, starting from 57, all the way to 66.
And one of the things you will notice inside these Suras,
is that it is warning not the disbelievers,
it's actually warning the believers.
It's warning the believers.
And I want you to understand why that happens.
When the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, started his mission in Makkah,
everybody believed.
Everybody, actually everybody who believed in him,
was completely sincere, is what I meant to say.
Everybody who believed in him was losing their family,
they were losing money, they were getting beat up,
only for believing in him.
You get nothing from believing in the Prophet.
You get nothing from it.
You get beat up, you get insulted, you get attacked,
you get kicked out of your home.
That's what you get.
If you're in Makkah and you believe in the Prophet,
because everybody, the elites, they call the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, insane.
So if you join him, you are also what?
You're also insane.
And they say that he's not loyal to his people.
And so now you're not loyal to your people.
So basically in the tribe, in tribal life,
if you're not loyal to your people, you lose your citizenship.
That's your citizenship.
So if you join the Prophet, in a sense, you've lost your citizenship.
We're not going to do business with you.
We're not going to marry with you.
We're not going to sit and eat food with you.
We're going to boycott you.
These are the kinds of things the Sahaba had to face when the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam was in Makkah.
So you know what that is?
The only reason you will believe is because you are getting something greater than all of these problems.
It's called return on investment, right?
It's return on.
If I'm going to lose my friends, I'm going to lose my family, I'm going to lose my money, I'm going to lose my house.
What am I going to get?
Why am I signing up for this?
And I'm going to get beat up and I'm going to get humiliated and insulted.
Well, you get Iman and Allah will reward you in the next life.
And you get to be loyal to the Prophet.
So the final messenger of God is here and he's standing for the truth.
And you have the honor of standing next to him.
That's all you get.
Good enough for you?
Yeah, good enough for me.
It's an honor.
They're getting beat up and they're happy.
They're getting beat up.
They're getting spit on and they're happy.
They're getting spit on.
These are the people.
We call them a sabiqu ala ala walun.
The people who came first, the people who came first.
I'm going to take a few minutes to explain this to you because this is a really important concept.
When someone comes first to something,
then they lose friends and family.
If you come from a family where everybody's a doctor
and you decide I'm going to sell bicycles,
you're the first one.
I'm going to start a bicycle store.
I'm going to have the most successful bicycle business in Europe.
Your father will write you out of your will.
Your mother will contact as many psychiatrists as possible.
They'll even contact a local Imam.
Maybe he can recite some Quran on you.
Because you're doing something that nobody else in the family is doing.
You understand?
So when you break away and you do something else,
then everybody turns against you.
What kind of support do you have when you do something like that?
Do you have anybody to support you?
No.
You have to have the strongest kind of personal will
that you're going to do this even if everybody thinks you're crazy.
And some of these people, like one little boy says,
I'm going to be a footballer.
I'm going to win a World Cup.
And then that kid turns into an actual football player
who eventually ends up winning the World Cup.
And then they tell a historian, say, when did this begin?
Well, this began when I was a child.
And there are other boys that say, I want to be a footballer.
I want to win the World Cup.
And their dad says, that's cute. Do your math homework.
That's cute. Sign up for college. Get this job.
So the dream starts getting crushed, doesn't it?
But some people, they don't care what anybody says.
They fight everybody and they go after their dream
and they even get there.
0.0001% of people, whatever that small percentage is.
The point is, if you do something new, you lose everyone around you.
The Sahaba, by believing in the Prophet's Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we're doing something new, yes or no?
We're doing something new.
Nobody did that in their family.
Nobody did that in the tribe.
Nobody's done that for thousands of years.
What are you talking about? Are you crazy?
And because they did that, they are the first comers.
These people, you know what we call them nowadays?
We call them pioneers.
In American English, we call them trailblazers.
They set a new trend.
They do something nobody's ever done before.
And when they do that, eventually they become heroes in society.
Whether they're in business or in sports or anything.
When they do something new, everybody's like,
wow, this person did something so crazy and so new
that nobody had even thought of and they start pioneering something
and it takes over.
And then there's a next wave of people we call them fans or followers.
In the beginning, that guy is alone or that woman's alone.
But once they reach success, what happens?
Lots and lots of people follow them.
So they become trend setters.
In the beginning, they're crazy.
Eventually, they're the one to follow.
They're role models.
The Prophet's wife by the time he gets to Medina,
the Sahaba are already there.
His loyal followers are already there.
And now, even in Medina, some people are early to follow the Prophet's wife.
And even in Medina, people are like, should we really?
You think he's a prophet of God?
You think an angel talks to him?
That's what you think.
And so it would be difficult.
There are people in Medina that have Jewish background.
They could say to their family, well, your book is good enough for you.
Moses is good enough for you.
Thotara is good enough for you.
Your rabbi gives such a great sermon every week.
That's not good enough for you.
Why are you becoming Muslim?
What's the matter with you?
There could be Christian background.
There could be other background.
And they're starting to accept Islam.
And all their family is losing it.
But as it starts growing, and by the time the Prophet gets to Medina,
actually a huge population of people living in Medina are ready to accept Islam.
It's no longer a sacrifice.
Now, the people who follow Islam are not the minority.
In a sense, they are the powerful majority.
So the world is very different in Medina than it was in Makkah.
Now the Muslims are the winning team.
They're the winning team.
Because they are the winning team, you then get three kinds of Muslims.
This is really important to understand this group of Suras.
You get how many?
Three kinds of Muslims.
You only got one kind of Muslim in Makkah.
Which kind?
The pioneers.
The ones who are ready to sacrifice everything.
That's the only kind of Muslim you get in Makkah.
When the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam moves to Medina,
you get the pioneers.
And the pioneers are from Makkah.
And some of them are also from Medina.
Asabikunal awwaluna min al muhajireena wal al-Ansar.
The first and foremost who came from the muhajireen,
and the first and foremost from the Ansar, meaning the people of Medina.
That's group one.
Then there's group two.
They accept Islam because it makes sense.
Because it's a beautiful message.
But they don't have to give up their family.
They don't have to give up their job.
They don't have to give up their home.
Meaning they accept Islam intellectually.
They accept Islam emotionally.
But it comes without any sacrifices.
It's not a major sacrifice.
By comparison, the pioneers, did they have to make major sacrifices?
Yeah.
So is accepting Islam easier now in Medina?
Yeah.
So a good number of people start coming into Islam.
And it's easy.
Sometimes an entire family accepts Islam.
The whole family becomes Muslim.
Easier and easier and easier.
Then there's the third group of people.
The third group of people says,
We were doing pretty good before he got here.
People used to listen to us.
People used to follow us.
Now all of a sudden everybody wants to become Muslim.
If we want to stay relevant,
If we want to be a part of the society,
then we have to join the winning party.
We need to accept Islam because if we don't accept Islam,
everybody else is going to follow the trend.
We're going to be left behind.
Now they're not following Islam.
They're not coming to Islam because they are interested in Islam.
Or they find it convincing.
But they think it's a good political move.
It's a good social move to accept Islam.
You understand.
The Quran calls these people,
Munafiqun, hypocrites.
That's what he calls them.
You get three kinds of Muslims in Medina.
Let me ask you what they are.
What's the first one?
Pioneers.
Then the average Muslims.
A couple call them the average Muslims.
And the third one?
The Munafiqun.
But there's a problem with the average Muslims.
Let me tell you something.
What happens with the average Muslims?
The average Muslims came in with or without sacrifice?
Generally without too much sacrifice.
But pretty soon in Medina,
after a little bit of time,
is there going to be a need for sacrifice?
Yeah, because Makkah is not sitting still.
The Makkahs are not happy about what happened.
And within six months,
there's going to be preparation for war.
Which means anybody who accepted Islam,
is potentially a member of the military.
I just like the prayers.
I thought it was really nice.
The Fatiha sounds so nice.
I just accepted Islam for so beautiful and spiritual.
What is this?
Fighting?
I don't know how to fight.
I'm a farmer.
I don't know how to fight.
The only fight I ever had was with my wife.
I don't know how to fight.
What do you mean?
We're going to bother?
We're going to bother?
And the people who came for political reasons,
remember the Munafiqoon?
They come to the regular Muslims and they say,
See what you signed up for?
You see what happens?
You miss the days of the past or what?
And the Munafiqoon are trying to pull the average Muslim
towards their team.
They also make them into what?
Munafiqoon.
So there's actually Munafiqoon in two categories.
They're two categories.
Now, again, let's understand this picture again.
Because there are three groups,
I want you to use the analogy of if you have a lot of iman,
it's high temperature.
If you are basically Muslim, middle temperature.
And if you have no iman,
or your hypocrite is cold temperature.
In Makkah, was the average temperature high, middle or low?
It was high.
But in Medina, is the overall temperature going down?
Yeah, so I'm not talking about one percent,
but overall as a community,
is the average iman, the overall iman, decreasing.
It is, isn't it?
To address this problem,
the overall iman is decreasing.
Muslims needed to be given a wake-up call.
Don't fall into being Munafiq.
Don't let your iman die.
You need to increase the temperature or not?
Decrease the temperature.
The goal of these ten surahs is to shake up the Muslims
to increase the temperature.
That's what's going on in these ten surahs.
Surat al-Jumu'ah is one of those ten surahs.
Okay?
And that's the overall picture.
I want you to understand the overall picture
and the agenda of these surahs, and that's what that is.
Is that clear to everybody?
Okay?
Now, let's go on.
I'll skip some of this.
Some things you should know.
These are some subtle things.
In the previous group,
let's see if anybody remembers which surah number to which surah number
was the previous group.
50 to 56.
This is Qaf to Waqya.
Allah talked in every surah,
He said something or the other about the Quran.
He said something in every one of them.
He started with Qaf and Quran in Majid.
Qaf, I swear by the Majestic Quran.
Wa dhakir bil Quranima ya khafu wa'id.
Remind with the Quran, whoever fears my threat.
Remind through the Quran, whoever fears my threat.
That's in surah Qaf number 50.
In 51, he says
fa warabbis sama'i wal ard innahu lahakun.
Or innahu lahakun,
mithlama annakum tantikun.
I swear by the master of the sky and the earth.
It is meaning the Quran is the truth,
as true as your ability to speak.
Though he's convincing people of the truth of the Quran.
Then he says
wa dhakir fa ma anta bina'umati rabbika bika'idin wa la majnun.
In 52, he says,
Remind people, because you are not a mind reader,
and you're not insane like they say.
Am yakuluna sha'irun.
Are they saying he's making poetry?
He's a poet.
Yat rabbasubihi raybal manun.
Let's see how the situation changes.
Maybe somebody will come and kill him.
Maybe his poetry will go out of fashion.
It won't be viral anymore.
Let's just see how things, let's wait and see.
Not that we'll just believe in him yet.
Let's wait and see.
Am yakuluna taqawwalahu.
Are they saying he just makes it up?
But that you quinoon know they're not ready to be convinced.
Fal yatubi hadithi mitnihi inkannu sadaqeen.
Let them bring something even close to it.
If they're telling the truth.
What is that a challenge of? Produce something like what?
Here's all the allegations.
This is what you think the Quran is.
Okay, well, if it's poetry, give me your poetry.
If it's magic, show me some magic.
In Surah number 53, he says
wa ma antaqawwalahu.
He's not making this up from his own feelings.
He doesn't speak from his own feelings, his own emotions.
In huwa illa wahyunuha.
This is nothing but revelation that's being given to him.
In Surah, the Deqsura after Qamar, or after Najam Qamar,
Allah says,
wa laqad yassarna al-Quran al-dhikri fa hal minwooddhikir.
We made the Quran easy for people to get reminder.
We made it easy for them to remember Allah.
Then is there anyone who wants to benefit from that reminder?
You know the famous words about the Quran in Surah Al-Rahman already.
Surah number 55,
al-Rahmanu al-Rahman.
The most loving, the most caring one.
He's the one who taught the Quran.
Why do you not realize this is an act of love from Allah?
And then, at the very end of this, in Surah number 56,
really interesting,
fa la'uqusimu bimawaqi an-nujum wa inna hulaqasamu allahu ta'alahu na'adhim,
inna hulaquranu al-karim.
I swear by how the stars are placed in the galaxies.
And that is an amazing oath.
This is a noble Quran.
This Quran.
Allah compares the Quran's ayat to the stars in the galaxies.
Which is a deep discussion, but for another time.
I've already done the series on ad-waqya.
But I will tell you this much.
Allah says about the Quran in Surah Al-Baqya,
the last Surah before this group begins.
He says something special.
He says,
afa bihaathal hadithi an-tumbudheanoon.
You want to play games and negotiate with this book,
with this speech?
You want to do a negotiation?
We like this part, we don't like this part.
This is what you want to do.
wa ta-jaaluna risqakum annaqum duqadzeeboon.
And you think that you can just keep your provisions, your rizq.
Meaning, the real reason you want to play games with the Quran,
with this revelation, is because you don't want to lose out on your money,
or your assets, or your social power.
So you want to take the parts of the Quran that allow you to keep your current assets
and your business, and your politics, and your social standing, exactly how it is.
And everything that challenges that, you want to put that aside.
That's the negotiation you want to do.
This was important because in the coming Surahs, the group we're dealing with,
Allah will talk a lot about the hypocrites.
Now you understand why?
And what do the hypocrites want to do?
They want to compromise the word of Allah.
They want to protect their assets.
They want to protect their political standing.
By the end of the last group, we were already mentally prepared for what's coming in this group.
Something special that happens in this group, moving from the previous group,
is Allah doesn't just talk about the Quran, which He will, in practically every Surah.
He'll also mention something about the Quran from 57 to 66.
But He'll add something.
This time it's going to be about loyalty to the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
This is actually going to, the Prophet's going to keep coming up.
He'll treat the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
And what the Prophet does for you, like in 57, he says Allah sent His ayat,
His revelations to His slave, meaning the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
so he can bring you out of darknesses into light.
Allah didn't just mention the Quran, He mentioned the Prophet, His slave.
He highlights him.
Then He will keep mentioning, oh, believe in His Messenger and believe in His book.
You know?
And He'll allow you to walk in light.
So that now, it's not just in the previous group, it was a focus on the Quran.
And now there's a focus on the Quran and the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
This is really important, especially for Medina.
Why?
Because people say, yeah, of course I believe in God.
I believe in the afterlife.
Yeah.
Oh, why do I have to go to war?
Just because He's saying it?
I mean, He's just another man like us.
Okay, fine, He's a Prophet, but we don't have to follow Him in everything.
I mean, these guys are crazy.
Look at these people.
They became homeless following Him.
They're living here on welfare in Medina, even though they had homes and families in Makkah.
These people are idiots.
You want me to be like these idiots?
Anubinu kama amanasufaha.
We should believe like these idiots believe.
It's in the Quran.
That's what they said.
In other words, their loyalty to the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, made them bankrupt.
Their loyalty ruined their life.
So they're trying to question.
You should follow the Prophet.
Pray with Him.
That's fine.
Listen to some inspirational speeches.
That's good.
But if He's asking you for bigger sacrifices, come on.
We're not crazy.
That's too much.
That's too extreme.
We're not going to take that route.
You understand?
So now it was important to highlight loyalty to the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, in these surahs.
Okay, now, actually, I want to skip this part.
I want to show you this diagram.
I don't know if it's going to make any sense to you, but I'm going to try.
So on the left side, it says, this bih.
You guys know what this bih has?
Anyone know what this bih has?
Saying Subhanallah.
What does Subhanallah mean?
We'll have a discussion today about it, but after this introduction today, the only thing we will get done is
ayah number one, hopefully.
Hopefully.
Okay, so that's as far as we can go today.
But anyway, this bih means to declare Allah as perfect.
So when you say Subhanallah, you are saying, I declare that Allah is perfect or Allah is flawless.
Flawless.
When you say something about Allah or you believe about Allah, that anything that would take away from His perfection,
you have removed it from your mind.
That would be the bih.
Okay, so in a sense, you can say, you know what detox is?
Right?
You detox your concept of God from any impurities.
That's called this bih.
That's actually, so removing all the negative.
Removing all the negative.
That's this bih.
Hound is something else.
Hound is adding all the positive.
This bih removes all the negative and Hound adds all the positive.
That's the two sides of it.
You cannot add Hound without first doing what?
Tasbih.
You're gonna do Tasbih first.
But you can't just do Tasbih because just because you say Allah is perfect, He doesn't have any flaws.
You still haven't said anything good about Him.
You just didn't say anything bad about Him.
That's not good enough.
So there's Subhanallah, but there's also what?
Alhamdulillah, they go together.
Al-Ad-Dukr'an.
Fasabbih bih-Hamdi Rabbika.
Meaning do Tasbih with the Hound of your Rabb.
Meaning first remove all the negative, detox your concepts of God to make them pure, and then add the positive.
You understand?
These surahs, the ones that are marked in green, meaning 57 Hadid, 59 Hasher, 61 Mumtahana, 62,
or Saf, sorry 61 Saf, 62 Jumu'an, 64 Ta'abun.
These are the ones that begin with Tasbih.
So half of them begin with Tasbih.
That's an important observation.
Tasbih is one of the main themes in this group.
So half of them get it.
Another thing that keeps coming up in these surahs is in fact spending.
Spending keeps coming up one way or the other.
In 57, 58, 59, skip 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65.
Spending, spending, spending, spending, spending.
The last one is interesting.
In 65, it's actually spending on in family matters.
Spending not related to battle, but in family matters.
Hypocrisy, which I mentioned to you is the problem.
Where does it come up?
How does it come up?
Where does it come up?
Every one of them.
Every one of them.
And then the last ones, I changed the color a little bit.
Not because I ran out of ink, but because it is being talked about more indirectly.
It's there, but not as direct as the other surahs.
Then of course, this is really interesting.
Two things that seem like they have nothing to do with each other.
What are the last two items?
Family and what?
Prophetic war.
You would think, okay, what the prophet moved to Medina, so now there's the Quraysh
that are going to attack.
There's going to be wars, but that is going to happen.
Uhud is going to happen.
These are the battles and the life of the prophet and many small battles in between.
So there's war matters.
And of course, when you talk about war, there's a goal.
Once we win, we will establish government.
And when we establish government, these will be the laws.
This is how we will deal with murderers.
This is how we will deal with thieves.
This is how we will deal with criminals, war criminals.
This is how we will establish justice.
Like there's these big constitutional laws.
You would think you would talk about those, but what the Qur'an does is he talks in these surahs about prophetic war.
And then instead of talking about the constitutions that will come after winning the prophetic war, he talks about family law.
He talks about a lot about husband and wife, actually.
Husband and wife is like surat al-Mujadala, all about husband and wife, all over it.
Surat al-Taghabun, actually even before that, in surat al-Mumtahana, is about husband and wife.
And then you get surat al-Munafiqun.
And then he says,
Don't you have money, you don't have children, you don't have children, that's about children and money.
Don't let them distract you from Allah's remembrance.
In 64 he says,
Your money and your spouses are a great test for you.
Some people don't read a little too much right now.
The moment I said,
Your money and your spouses are a great test for you.
Yeah.
Haqq, the Qur'an is Haqq.
Surat number 65 is called at-Talaq, the surah of divorce.
Surat al-Tahreem is a surah that begins and ends with actually the spousal relationship,
guidance on the spousal relation.
And in the middle it says,
Qohan fusakum ahli kumnaara, save yourselves and your families from the fire.
The thing is, I said there seems to be a contrast.
Why would war be mentioned side by side with what?
Family law, family guidance, married life.
What is the connection between these two things?
This is actually where you appreciate the philosophy of the Qur'an, the wisdom of the Qur'an.
Allah sent Adam, alayhi salam, to this earth.
And there was three that came down to the earth together.
Adam, Hawa and there was one more.
Iblis, thank you very much.
Alakoum.
Iblis.
And Allah says,
Allah says,
You will be enemies to each other.
He said, you will be enemies to each other.
So there's three people, three individuals.
Adam, Hawa and Iblis.
And Allah says, you'll be enemies to each other.
What does that mean?
You too will be enemy of that one?
No, that's not what that means.
If I say to three people, you will all be enemies to each other.
A will be enemy of B.
A will also be enemy of C.
B will be enemy of A and C.
C of A and B, you understand?
It's going to go.
So, shaitan's job is to make sure that you become an enemy with who?
The man becomes an enemy too.
And then they become enemies of their children.
And their children become enemies of each other.
And animosity spreads.
That's the whole, it started with man and wife.
Allah is saying in the Qur'an, you solve that conflict.
You address that conflict.
And you've created peace inside of a family.
If you've created peace inside of a family,
you're going to raise children in what?
Peace.
And those children, because they have learned peace,
will then create families that also have what?
Peace.
Peace will become viral.
But if you have conflict here,
then what will you pass down to coming generations?
Conflict.
You'll pass conflict down.
Conflict, conflict.
And you will be enemies to each other.
Now, the Rasul S.A.W. is going to war for the sake of Allah.
And as if Allah is saying,
if you don't win the battleground of the family,
then there's no purpose of this war.
The real victory, the real palace is actually,
the Book of Allah is implemented in the household.
Now, I'll tell you something that you might think is shocking.
It's actually quite true.
If you think of all the laws that are mentioned in Islam,
and the Quran,
the Quran is a book of proportions, by the way.
Everything is in proportion.
Like Allah created my body in proportion.
My fingers are a certain size.
My legs are a certain size.
My pinky is not the size of my leg.
Alhamdulillah.
Right?
Everything is in proportion.
Something is small.
Something is big.
Isn't that the case?
Some bones are small.
Some bones are big.
Some nerves are longer.
Some nerves are shorter.
Isn't that the case?
The Quran, some subjects take up more space.
Some subjects take less space.
Isn't that the case?
And Allah decided all of it.
This is a design from Allah Himself.
It is designed, the vast majority of the laws mentioned in the Quran
are family laws.
The vast majority.
You would have number two, maybe financial laws.
Those two take the main stage.
Main space in the Quran.
And within them, the marital relationship and inheritance,
top items.
They're top, top items.
When we don't know the Quran, and we don't study the Quran,
we have a different picture of where the focus is.
You understand?
When you actually look and study what Allah is saying,
and how He's saying it, and where He's placing it.
One of the most amazing surahs in this series is Surah number 66.
I'll just tell you one thing about it because we got to keep moving.
Surah number 66, Surah Tuttahrim.
It begins with the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
being too influenced by some of his wives who were trying to be controlling.
They were trying to be controlling over him.
Everybody has a right over everybody, but they were trying to make him
make something Qalam that Allah didn't make Qalam.
And then you kind of like, I'll make it easy for you.
If you love me, you won't go hang out with your friends ever again.
Or if you love me.
Or if you love me, you'll never get your sister,
and you'll never call your sister because you love me.
Well, I mean, I love you a little less now.
Because I still love my sister.
Husbands can do this, wives can do this.
You try to make a condition out of love of me.
You need to cut off a part of yourself.
You need to cut out some people from your life.
You can't, you know, young men or young women, they love doing something.
They love art.
Or they love some guy, love basketball.
That is why he says, yeah, okay, no, no, go play basketball, go, go, go.
Well, why would you stay home?
I go once a year.
No, no, go, go.
It's okay.
I'm fine.
What she, she's not, she's saying go, but she's not saying go.
She's saying, if you really loved me, you'd give that up.
You wouldn't go.
You understand?
So what happens over time, you build a resentment.
If this person doesn't let me be who I am.
They're controlling.
They're controlling.
They're using my love for them as a chain to stop me.
I'm not even doing something wrong.
I just wanted to say salam.
I just wanted to go see a friend.
I just wanted to say some people don't, you know, some, some mothers will tell their sons,
if you love me, you will do, you will do this, this, this to your wife,
or you will say this, this, this to your wife, or you won't talk to her,
or you won't do, you'll punish her in this way.
Mom, go eat a sandwich.
This is, this not your space.
Yes, Snickers.
That'll be good.
Yeah.
The point is, in the beginning, the Prophet was told, don't allow a family member to go beyond their rights,
to step on your own rights.
Don't do that.
Cause if you do that, then your entire Oma will learn that from you.
And that will become okay.
You are role model.
So, Allah, you said, this is in the beginning of what's your role?
At the end of the Surah, Allah says,
Prophet, make jihad against the Kuffar, and make jihad against the hypocrites.
Whoa, now he's being talked to like he's the commander in chief,
the general of the Muslim military, you understand?
And fight those who are trying to create espionage,
and trying to be traitors from inside, the spies within you, fight them,
and fight the enemy outside.
So the commander in chief is being talked to as the general,
and he's being told lead the war, isn't he?
But is that at the beginning of the Surah at the end?
At the end?
You would think, between a family issue,
and war,
war for the sake of Allah,
what should be in our mind?
What is item number one in our head?
War.
Jihad is a bit of law.
And it's all the way down at the end.
Why?
Because that's the first battle.
That's the priority.
That's how humanity was sent down.
There's a mindset that's taught in the Zayat.
You know, the Quran is not just information, it's a mindset.
What is priority?
Why are you even fighting?
What's even the purpose?
What's even the purpose?
You know, in Surat Muhammad, Surat Muhammad is a surah of fighting.
It's a surah, it's also called Surat Al-Qita, the surah of fighting.
It says,
Allah says,
if you don't fight, you know what's going to happen?
You will cause corruption in the land,
and you will cut family ties.
Allah says,
the great tragedy of not fighting against the Mushrikun
in Makkah, the prophetic war.
You know what the real damage of that will be?
Family ties will be cut.
That's what Quran says.
Remarkable.
The thing, the reason I'm making a point to share this with you is,
oftentimes we are afraid to talk about why the Prophet fought.
What was he fighting for?
And what's even scarier is when people do talk about the subject,
they don't talk about this.
Which is right there in the book staring at you.
It's important to highlight what Quran, let the Quran speak for itself.
So this is the neighborhood in which Surat Al-Jumu'a belongs.
Now just a couple other quick, really subtle and beautiful points.
The Tasbih of Allah.
Let me tell you a phrase so you understand what this all means.
I'll explain it first.
Sabbahalillahi ma'fi al-samawati wal-arth.
Sabbahalillahi ma'fi al-samawati wal-ma'fi al-arth.
Everything, whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth,
has always done Tasbih of Allah.
Hear me again in English.
Everything that's in the skies, whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth,
has always done Tasbih of Allah.
I used has always done.
Yes? Let me use it again.
Everything, whatever is in the skies, whatever is in the earth,
does and will always do Tasbih of Allah.
What tense did I use now?
The present and future.
Some of these surahs mentioned the Tasbih of Allah in the past.
So you find that in Surat Al-Hadeed.
In the beginning of Surat Al-Hadeed, you find that in Surat Al-Hashal,
you find that in Surat Al-Jumu'a.
Not Jumu'a, sorry, a Saf.
And there are three surahs in which the Tasbih has mentioned in the present and the future.
Everything in the skies and the earth does and will continue to do the Tasbih of Allah.
That's mentioned in Surat Al-Hashal and in Jumu'a and in Taha'bun.
One surah has both past and present. Which one?
Which number do you see past and present together?
Hashr. Hashr opens with the past, ends with the present.
Okay? But I'm not teaching you Surat Al-Hashr, so I won't tell you why that happens.
It's pretty cool though. I will tell you something else.
Every time Allah mentions Tasbih in the past, he mentions fighting.
The surahs that begin with Tasbih in the past, they mention prophetic war.
The surahs that mentioned Tasbih in the future, they don't mention what?
Prophetic war. And actually, there's lots to learn here,
but one subtle thing I will tell you, the war that was administered to the Prophet,
will become a thing of the past.
This will be a historic war that will bring the victory of Islam
and cleanse the house of Allah that was built by Ibrahim, and it's actually meant to become a thing of the past.
And then Tasbih of Allah forever shall continue.
So there's an association of the past with war actually in these surahs,
with prophetic war particularly.
But then there's another really beautiful thing, and that's not happening in this surah,
but you should note the perfection of the Quran. Listen to me carefully and tell me the difference.
Whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth,
declares the perfection of Allah. How many times did you hear whatever?
Good. I'll say it again. Whatever is in the skies and the earth declares the perfection of Allah.
How many times did you hear whatever?
There's only two places where Allah says whatever once.
Whatever is in the skies and the earth.
Everywhere else, He says whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth.
He mentions ma twice.
Subh'Allah, ma fis-sama'u wa tih, wa ma fil-ardhi, ma is twice.
Other places,
Subh'Allah, ma fis-sama'u wa tih, wa ad-dhi, just once.
Now if I told you,
I know whatever you said and whatever you said and whatever you said,
and I say, I know whatever you said, you and you and you said,
which one is more namble?
The second one is more namble. You don't have to say whatever over and again.
Why are you doing that?
Because I'm going to come after you, then I'm going to come after you, then I'm going to come after you.
There's extra emphasis on every whatever, you understand?
So when Allah says, whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth,
declares the perfection of Allah, is there a special stress on the earth?
You understand?
So you'll find in most of these surahs, wherever Tasbih has mentioned,
there's a special stress on the earth.
And what's really cool is Allah will mention that special stress on the earth,
and immediately in the next ayah, something about the peep us,
whatever is happening in the earth will be mentioned, immediately after.
There's only two places where that special whatever is on the earth is not mentioned,
two places.
Those two places are Surat al-Hadeed at the beginning,
and Surat al-Hashr at the end.
You sabbi'u lahumaf is samawati wal-arduwa wal-aziz al-hakim.
What's amazing about those two places is they only talk about Allah.
There's no mention of what's going on in the world.
At the end of Surat al-Hashr, you find
the earth, no special emphasis on the earth this time,
because it was all about Allah, and there was no focus on the people of the earth at the end.
It's only about Allah.
Go to the beginning of Surat, and if you don't know the Arabic,
these were all names of Allah, descriptions of Allah.
Now you go to the beginning of Surat al-Hadeed.
Allah is the One Who created the heavens and the earth in six days,
then He created the earth.
He knows what is going on in the earth and what is coming out of it,
and what is coming out of the heavens and what is going on in it.
He is with you wherever you are.
And Allah is the One Who makes us see.
He is the One Who has the heavens and the earth.
And if Allah makes things happen again, He will make the night in the fire,
and He will make the night in the night.
And He is the One Who knows the same things.
Allah is the One Who makes things happen.
All of it is about Him.
So Allah, Allah, Allah, Allah, Allah.
There is no focus in the world.
Now just be, forget about worldly matters in this passage.
The two places that talk about Allah uniquely,
the Ma is removed.
This is just to show you every small detail in the Quran,
every word in the Quran has a strategic location and a placement.
Right? But the one we are dealing with, is there a Ma?
You sabbi'u lillahi maafi's samawati.
Maafi lillahi, surat al-jamu'a, there is two Ma's.
Now, I know my introduction is going to take super long,
but should I give you a break now?
I don't really care about your feelings.
Surat al-Suf is the surah right before this one.
In my study of the Quran, it's important to know what neighborhood a surah belongs to, remember?
And one of the, so one is what group does it belong to?
And the other, the other is, who's the immediate neighbor?
What's the surah right before and what's the surah right after?
So the surah right before, the surah we're about to study, is surat al-Suf.
Surat al-Suf.
So the surah begins with, everything has declared the perfection of Allah,
sabbaha, the past tense.
This surah is going to begin, every surah declares and will continue to declare the perfection of Allah.
Between the past, present and future, doesn't that cover all time?
So they already complement each other because it kind of together, they cover all time.
And the this was happening since ever and is happening now and will continue to happen forever.
So all three tenses get covered.
In this, in the last surah Allah mentions, what did he send the messenger with?
He sent him with guidance.
What did he send in with?
In this surah we're going to learn, who was he sent to?
Who was he sent to?
There we're going to learn, what was his overall objective?
He can make this deen victorious.
Here, that's the overall of the macro objective.
You understand macro and micro?
That's the macro objective.
What's the micro objective?
Every individual needs to be purified.
Every individual needs to be transformed.
That's going to be in this surah.
You find in just two reactions.
Especially in Makkah, there were two reactions to the Prophet.
Some people, they were all mushrikun before, they were all mushrikun.
Some of them, when the Quran came, they hated the Prophet a lot.
And some of them, when the Quran came, they left their misguidance and accepted Islam.
The people who hated the Prophet are mentioned in surah As-Saf,
wa laukariha al-mushrikun.
And the people who came towards Islam and left their shirk,
wa inkaanu min qabdu lafiql al-alim mubin are mentioned in this surah.
In surah As-Saf, Allah mentioned Musa spoke to his people.
Who were his people?
Good, Bani Israel.
Isa spoke to Bani Israel.
And they both were speaking to people who already believed.
They were already Muslim, but they weren't living up to Islam.
Even though they had a Prophet among them.
And both of these prophets came to which nation?
Bani Israel.
In this surah, you're going to find the example of those who were given the Torah
as a responsibility and they did not carry this responsibility.
Do you see a continuity?
Musa is the beginning of the Torah.
Isa is the conclusion of the Torah.
And now, alladina hummilu tawrat in the next surah.
So you see, you can see there's a continuity of messaging from one surah to the next surah.
Allah mentions there, Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people.
Allahul-Ayyah delqawwal fasiteen.
Allahul-Ayyah delqawwal lalimeen.
This is mentioned two times in surah As-Saf.
And in this surah, you'll also find,
Allahul-Ayyah delqawwal lalimeen.
Allah does not guide misguide or does not guide the wrongdoing people.
One of the most amazing contrasts in surah As-Saf, when Allah was encouraging the Muslims
to engage in prophetic war when the war was coming towards them,
He says,
He says,
Should I tell you of a business deal that will save you?
Should I tell you of a business deal that will what?
Save you.
And Allah mentions tijara again in this surah.
He says, when the Prophet, peace be upon him, was standing giving khudba,
there was some trade show going on, some caravan.
You know, nowadays you can buy, you know, clothes and groceries and things like that.
You can buy them from the mall or from the grocery store.
And the day they didn't have grocery stores like that,
people used to bring the items and stop and then they set up a whole camp for your shopping,
like a fair, like a market, right?
Set up a market and then briefly they're there.
If you want to catch the best deals, come early and then get out.
So the Jumar of khudba was going on, Salat al Jumar was going on and this trade fair came.
And people heard the bells and the, you know, the dancers and the singing songs and all that stuff
that they set up to make noise, to attract their customers and a bunch of people left Salat al Jumar
and went there.
Now the good thing nowadays is you don't have to leave the masjid to go to the entertainment.
You could just, you don't have to get up.
It comes to you.
You don't have to go to it.
But anyway, Allah says,
When they saw that trade,
they saw something entertaining, they ran towards it.
They left you standing there.
Allah mentions you will fight in the last path and you will spend with your money and your own selves.
You'll spend your own life.
That would be the ultimate trade.
And in this Surah, Allah will say that the death that you are running away from, it will catch you.
There's no way that you'll escape.
In the Mouta,
LaDhi Taferruna Minhu.
One of my most interesting, most favorite comparisons of these two Surahs is actually about Jesus.
So if you don't know, the followers of Jesus are called the Hawariyun.
The Bible calls them the disciples.
The disciples of Jesus.
They weren't many.
They were very few.
And after whatever happened in his mission, they were all spread out.
Like, they didn't win the battle.
You understand?
They were dispersed because they were so few.
And it took a couple of centuries before the Christianity or the some version of following Jesus made a comeback.
But for a long time, it was just dispersed in the early mission of Jesus.
By contrast, in this Surah, Allah says that Allah sent this messenger among people that had no education before, the Arabs.
And there are others who haven't joined them yet, who are coming.
Who's he talking about?
Others who haven't joined them yet.
Hey, he's talking about us.
He's talking about us.
He's talking about Islam going to Europe, Islam going to Africa, Islam going to Asia, Islam reaching Australia, Islam going everywhere.
It's going to go everywhere.
And the numbers are going to what?
And is it going to be many centuries of Islam disappearing and then it will appear?
No, no, no.
From the very beginning, Islam keeps spreading and spreading it.
This is the Fadl of Allah.
That's the favor of Allah.
He gives it to whoever he wants.
That is not how things played out in the mission of Jesus.
But this is how things are going to happen in the mission of Muhammad.
So, Allah, you guys seen, I mean, don't answer this publicly isn't people might stare at you.
You guys seen the Hollywood side in LA on the mountain?
Yeah, it's okay.
I was in an island in Malaysia, Kotakina, Peru, some time ago.
And this is like, you fly out of Kuala Lumpur a couple of hours, you're going over the ocean and you landed this remote island.
It's like a vacation island thing.
I was just on the plane.
I was just looking out at the sea and I was thinking,
how did Islam gear?
Like this is so far.
And there's so much water in between.
Like Allah's word just went everywhere.
And then I land in Kotakina, Peru and we're driving and it was a good hour and a half drive.
And I see a mountain.
And on the mountain, there's a calligraphy giant sign that says Allah.
Like the Hollywood side, except not to join them.
It was as a...
I was just baffled like, look at this.
These people want to just, they're driving and they're like, oh yeah, I should remember Allah.
You know?
To me, this Acharina Minhum, the blessing Allah gave to this online, the way that it spread,
is one of the most amazing miracles of this religion.
One of the most amazing things.
Finally, I'm going to share a quick comparison with you about Surat Al-Jumu'a and Surat Al-Munafiq.
At the end of Surat Al-Jumu'a, Allah says the people left the Prophet standing.
He was giving khutbah and the people left.
People walked away to that trade.
Right?
And the beginning of Surat Al-Munafiq, when some people come to the Prophet.
So look at the imagery.
At the end of one Surat, people are walking away from the Prophet.
In the beginning of the next one, people are coming to the Prophet and they're both wrong.
They're both wrong.
The ones who walked away got distracted and the ones who come are hypocrites trying to impress him.
They're coming for ingenuine reasons.
So, Al-Jumu'a says he gives people revelation.
He teaches people revelation so he can purify them.
And then there are people who hear this revelation but it doesn't purify them.
They take their faith as a shield to hide their real dirtiness.
So they're believers on the outside but really not believers on the inside.
And that's highlighted in Surat Al-Munafiq.
Allah says the people before us, they were given the responsibility of the Torah but they didn't carry it.
They were burdened but they didn't carry it.
This Surah says, hypocrites, they believed then they disbelieved.
You know why that's important?
When Allah talks about the Israelites in the Quran, he's actually not really only talking about the Israelites.
This is really important.
When he's talking about the Israelites, who do you think he's talking about?
He's talking about us.
This is a really important principle of the Quran. It happens over and over again.
They were talked about.
By the way, the word used for them will be indisputably, method, their example.
When is a teacher given example? When is a parent given example?
The example is given to benefit the student.
The example is not the goal.
The example is just a means to learn the lesson for you.
So when Allah says, muthel for them, it's because, look at what a lesson is about but he's like,
No, he said that because you look like that, homie.
That's why he's saying it.
There's a direct correlation being made.
So I'll quickly run to the end of this.
Allah says in Surat Al-Jumu'ah, he says, fas'aw ila dikr illa, rush to the remembrance of Allah.
In Surat Al-Mulafiq, he flips it and says, don't let your money and kids distract you from the remembrance of Allah.
In Surat Al-Jumu'ah, he says, remember Allah a lot so you can succeed.
I'll say that again. Remember Allah a lot so you can what?
Succeed. Okay, okay. What's the opposite of succeed?
He says, wama yafa'al dalika fa'u laika humul khasirun in the next Surat.
And whoever gets distracted from remembering Allah, those are the people that have failed.
One Surah says, remember Allah to succeed.
The other says, you get distracted and you will what?
Fail. You see a connection?
And I wanted to illustrate this to you so you understand how Surahs move in like there's a structure, there's a method, there's a continuity.
And this is your concluding comment and I'll give you guys a good, you've earned a good 10 minute break.
Mashallah, you've been very good. So I'm going to give you your first 10 minute break soon.
These are the three sections of Surat Al-Juva'ah.
It's 11 ayat, but it's going to be broken up into three sections.
And hopefully today we can do one ayah from the first section.
Hopefully. I don't think it's going to happen now, but this is what we're going to go through.
And at the whenever we reach the end of a section, I'll give you an overview of that section.
Then we'll get to the end of the second section and an overview.
Then the third one, then an overview of the entire Surah.
And this is sort of my method in giving these lectures on the Surahs and Shah-i-Llutada.
So with that, I'm going to give you guys your first 10 minute break.
And within 10 minutes, I'll be back here talking again.
Jazakumul Alaykum.
