What's the ultimate dhikr according to the Quran?
The Quran.
The Quran.
But when he says,
Dhikrullah, the remembrance of Allah,
Allah is not talking about the sounds of the Quran.
Allah is talking about the message of the Quran that impacts the heart.
So our connection, the more intimate we become in our connection with the Quran,
our recitation is going to become more spiritual.
Fa'sa'au ila dhikrullah.
Actually also, I didn't mention Salat.
If I knew the al-salat, so let me come back to this.
I'll show you something about Salat first.
The word Salat, which we translate as prayer,
is actually an istilah.
Istilah in Arabic means to warm your hands on a fire.
Okay?
Or to borrow a fire from an exit,
like there's a barbecue fire and you can take your torch and you can light up your fire.
La'allakum tas-taloon.
The word Salat is used when his family was freezing in the desert cold
and he said, I'm going to go up to that fire
and I'm going to see if I can find some directions
and hopefully I can get a little bit of the fire so you can get some warmth.
La'allakum tas-taloon.
Same word from Salat.
It's used also for people being thrown into the fire of hell.
Tasliya tujahim.
Tasliya.
Oh, inna humda salu al-naar.
Salu from the same word.
Salayasli.
And from it we get the word prayer.
What does prayer have to do with heating and fire?
Actually the idea is when you put something in the fire or when you heat something it becomes soft.
Okay, the heat makes it soft.
It's a stick and you put it in the heat, it starts bending.
Right?
The idea of Salat, the spiritual meaning of Salat, one of its meanings is
that its intensity humbles you.
It softens you.
Like it softens your heart.
It softens your thoughts.
It softens your feelings.
Taqshairro binu julood al-ladinab.
Like those who believe their sins, summa talinu juloodu, their skins become soft.
Right?
So there's a detoxing happening.
And there's a melting of you happening when you're standing in the prayer.
It's incredible.
Then Hassan Hassan Jabal in his dictionary, he argues, this is a little bit technical but really cool.
So I'm sharing it with you.
The word Salah has to do with Saad, Lam and Ya.
And in Arabic there are vowels.
And if Wao and Ya are vowels.
So if you get rid of the vowels, then what consonants are left?
Saad and Lam.
So the theory in Arabic linguistics that if there's three letters and one of them is a vowel,
then you look at the two consonants, in this case Saad and Lam.
And any word that shares those two letters is related to that word.
So you take the common denominator which is Saad and Lam.
And the other vowel would be if you put a Wao in the beginning, Wa-Sala, which is another word in Arabic.
Which is similar to Salah because it has Saad and Lam in it.
One has a vowel at the end.
The other has a vowel in the beginning.
It's like studying algebra.
Honestly, it's really cool.
But anyway, so this word Wa-Sala, which is a Mitha'il, Mitha'il Wa-Wi, means to connect.
And so Salah also means to join, to connect.
You know, like Wa-Yakta'oona Ma'amara Allah Bihi Ayyusala.
They cut what Allah has commanded to keep joined.
When we're called to Salah, we firstly connect to Allah.
And by extension, in a very secondary way, we actually also connect to each other.
Allah says,
What's a physical demonstration of everybody holding on to the rope of Allah together and not being divided?
Friday prayer.
Friday prayer, everybody's together.
They're not divided.
And they're all holding on to the rope of Allah.
So there's this idea of connection.
So let me come back and just go through some of these other things.
Then,
The call is made that the Lam actually means for the purpose of.
The ultimate purpose is the prayer itself.
But we know that Jumu'ah is not just a prayer.
It's what else?
It's the khutbah.
It's the khutbah and the prayer.
And there's five prayers in a day.
Which prayer do we not pray on Friday?
We don't pray lot.
Lot is forakas.
But the Friday prayer is what?
Turaqas.
Our Fukhah looked at this and said,
The reason we don't pray the four rakah of Wur is that two of them become the equal of the khutbah.
And the other two are the prayers that we pray.
Which is why the khutbah becomes a part of the prayer.
Okay?
So we're compensating two rakahs of Wur with actually the khutbah.
Okay?
Which is why you should take every precaution you can to come to the Friday prayer early.
You should also take every precaution you can.
It's not just any speech.
It's a part of the salah in that sense.
So you shouldn't be talking or, you know, distracted.
Just like you wouldn't do that in the prayer.
You wouldn't in the middle of your prayer be like,
Allah.
Well, let me respond.
Okay, I'm about to go to Rukul.
I've got to go talk later.
Allah.
Wouldn't do that and you shouldn't do that also in what?
In the khutbah.
In the khutbah.
And even from an early age, our children should be taught.
Khutbah is not a...
Any other speech.
Any other speeches going on, people are talking to each other.
No problem.
But this, you shouldn't be.
Now, I'll share with you my own, again, might sound controversial to you,
but I'm going to share my position on this with you.
There was a...
Because this was assumed that the two rakahs of Wur are now equivalent of the khutbah,
which is then making it the khutbah sacred.
The khutbah has now become sacred.
Now that it's become sacred, it should be in Arabic.
So, Fatwa came that the khutbah itself should be in the Arabic language,
otherwise it's not really considered a khutbah.
Okay?
The problem I have with that view is that, one, the Prophet, sallallahu alaihi wa sallam,
spoke in Arabic because he was speaking to an Arab audience.
It's number one.
The opening praises of the Prophet's Masnu and Khutbah,
or the fact that we praise Allah and send salawat on the Prophet's life to them.
Sure, do that in Arabic.
That's a great sunnah of the Prophet, sallallahu alaihi wa sallam.
But if somebody who's Arab or speaks Arabic starts talking about, you know,
how we should help our young men and women become more independent
and become financially responsible so they can get married early.
But he says all of that in Arabic to a Turkish community.
And he says all of that in Arabic to a Bangladeshi community.
Did any of them hear anything about the ayat of Allah?
They didn't.
That's actually what I'm shared with you is inspired by the ayat of the Quran.
The Quran talks about these issues, you know, that it talks about financial independence
and how you have to become related to marriage.
So, this is an important issue that the community needs to hear,
but now they can't hear because it's only being said in Arabic.
And the problem with that is Allah never said the Arabic language is sacred.
The sacred words in the Arabic language are sacred.
Quran is sacred, not Arabic.
When I say,
When I say,
When I say,
That's not more Islamic.
I was like,
How's it going, bro?
That's just this is equal, you know what, it was a funny story in a country
where they don't speak Arabic,
but Arabic is supposed to be like really the Islamic language.
They had a problem in that Muslim country where people, they just go by a wall, because
there's no public bathrooms, right?
So people go by a wall and they just pee.
It was just disgusting.
And they put giant signs, please don't urinate here, please don't pee here, etc.
And nobody listens.
It was just disgusting, right?
So somebody came up with a genius idea.
They put it in calligraphy Arabic.
Do not pee.
That the problem stopped.
Because the minds of people Arabic itself is sacred.
So.
Yeah, so I do believe the most known part of the Khudba, the Hamdut of Allah's
Panawata and the Salawat of the Prophet's life.
And I think we should preserve that some of the Prophet's life.
And but the message of the Khudba actually should be in the language of the people.
And that's why it was separated from the prayer itself.
So it's supposed to be a message for the people.
So anyway, that's it.
If I do the other Salat, I mean, you know, now, many of the
next piece, a part of the day of Friday.
This is really important because the people that came before us, the Israelites who were
given the Torah, they were not told to pray a part of the sacred day.
And for them, the sacred day was called Asabt, Asabt the Sabbath.
And actually they were told to pray the entire day and leave all business the entire day.
I'm going to go into detail about that later on, but I'll tell you one thing now.
And that is Allah has taken what used to be part of the Sharia of Musa A.S.
And he reduced it and he made it lighter.
Now there are other things in the Sharia of Musa A.S.
That Allah made lighter also.
Like the things they added on, like for example, I told you they considered the camel impure,
right?
And Allah clarifies that no, it's not impure.
You can eat that in the Quran.
There's an Isha'arayd Surat Al-Imran.
Similarly they used to have days in which they would fast.
Allah made those days optional, but he made the fasting of Ramadan mandatory.
On this note, you should note a few things about our prayers and theirs.
Their prayers, they used to have also Rukh-u-A'an Sujood like we have.
They used to have Rukh-u-A'an Sujood.
But it seems that they used to have Sajda first and Rukh-u-Second.
Okay?
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know and encourage you that I want you to
sign up for bayinatv.com and help other sign up, even sponsor students for bayinatv.com
so we can create worldwide communities of students that are studying the meanings and
the benefit and the wisdom of the Quran and are insha'Allah Ta'ala spreading that in their
own circles.
Thanks so much.
And we get that Isha'ara in how Allah spoke to or the angels spoke to Mariam Salamun
Aliha was sudi wa rka'i ma'al raki'ain.
Do Sajda and make Rukh-u-A'an.
Okay?
So they do Sajda and they make Rukh-u-A'an.
But we do Rukh-u-A'an first and we do Sajda.
So Allah changed the format of the prayer.
Then they used to pray towards Jerusalem.
Allah changed it towards what?
The Ka'bah.
They used to pray in the middle three days of the month.
Allah changed and the day of Ashura.
Allah changed the fasting to what?
Ramadan.
He mandated the fasting in?
Ramadan.
So what is Allah doing?
He changed the capital.
He changed the national holiday.
Right?
He changed the sacrifice.
He kept some things but he altered each thing.
You know what that is?
When a nation has a new capital.
When a nation has a new constitution, the Quran.
When a nation has a new, we don't have an independence day.
We have an independence month.
And usually a nation has an independence day when their constitution gets materialized.
The Quran got materialized meaning it came down in the month of Ramadan.
So we don't have an independence day.
We have an independence month.
Right?
And then we celebrate that at the end with Eid, actually.
Right?
And then daily it claimed to Ibrahim, Allah gave us Eid al-Aqha.
And we make bigger claim to Ibrahim, than they can ever make.
Because now millions and millions and millions of people go to Hajj and we have an Ibrahim
convention every year.
Right?
That's literally an Ibrahim al-Asaam convention.
And we slaughtered the animal just like who slaughtered the animal.
Ibrahim al-Asaam.
So we reclaimed Ibrahim al-Asaam.
We reclaimed the legacy of Ibrahim.
We reclaimed the prayer.
We reclaimed the fasting.
We reclaimed the final revelation.
All of it's getting reclaimed.
And the same way they had the day of Sabbath and Allah said, now the sacred day shall be
Jawaam.
That got reclaimed too.
There's a reclaiming happening.
Wait, wait, wait, what about Saturday?
No?
It's actually Friday.
It's Friday.
And it's not the whole Friday, it's only a part of Friday.
Allah said about them, وَيَضَعُوا عَنْهُمْ إِصْرَهُمْ وَلَغْلَالَلَلَ
الْتِيْكَانَتْ عَلَيْهِمْ يِتَأْطُوْسُ بَتَهْبِيْبَلْ
عَلَيْهِمْ يَتَأْطُوْسُ بَتَهْبِيْبَلْ
Allah has given this final prophet, peace be upon him, He has given him something that removes
the burdens and the chains that were on them.
They were chained by the Sabbath and Allah has removed that and invited them to something
much easier, which is the day of Friday.
So he says to us, فَسَعُوا إِلَا ذِكْرِنْدَا
By the way, Jumu'a, the meme has an O sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So you have an X sound, right?
So before, its old name in Arabic was Aruba.
Pretty cool name too.
But Jumu'a is better.
Are you going to watch somebody saying, hey, you're going to go to Aruba?
I was like, no, I'm going to Bahama.
Anyway, فَسَعُوا إِلَا ذِكْرِنْدَا
Let's talk a little bit about, by the way, just FYI.
So it was called Aruba.
ايام الأسبوع ان العرب في القديم هي أول
سنده was called أول.
أهوان و جبار
And it was called Aruba.
And Sunday was called أول.
أهوان و جبار
That was Monday.
غراد
And then دبار
And مؤيس
And then عروبة
And then شيار
Is actually Saturday for them.
These were the names of the week in ancient times.
Now of course we have
أحدة لثنين ثلاثة
العربعان, كميس, and الجمعان, a sub'd.
But interestingly, sub'd is the same.
A sub'd now, which in the
Hebrews say شبات
And in English the Bible calls it
سابث
Which actually comes
The Arabic etymology is سبتة
سبتة means to cut
Like
سبتة
comes from سابث also.
He made your sleep a time that cuts you off from this life.
Whatever problems you got going on
they're not going on when you're sleeping.
Your stress, your anxiety, your this,
your the fights over, the arguments over,
the meetings over, because you're
You're not there anymore.
You're cut off, right?
So the word سبات, it was used because
it cut them off from their business,
their earnings, everything. It cut them off completely.
So Allah says
فَسْعَوْئِلَا ذِكْلِ اللَّهَ
Rush to the remembrance of Allah, or rush
towards remembering Allah.
Now Allah could have said
when the call is made for the prayer
as part of the day of Friday
rush to it
فَسْعَوْئِلَيْهَا
Rush to it and the it
would refer to the prayer.
But Allah now gave a new name
to the prayer, which is what?
The remembrance of Allah
ذِكْلِ اللَّهَ
فَسْعَوْئِلَا ذِكْلِ اللَّهَ
This is called المُظْهَر بعد المُظْمر
We are في مقام المُظْمر
Meaning we expected a pronoun
but Allah used a noun.
Let me put that in simple words for you.
If Allah calls to the prayer
go to it.
That makes simple sense right? If Allah calls to the prayer
go to it.
Everybody hears it, they know what it is talking about.
What's it talking about?
The prayer. But Allah says when Allah calls to the prayer
go to remember Allah.
Go to remember Allah.
So instead of saying the word prayer
or saying the word it, he replaced it with
remembering Allah, which is really
amazing for a couple of reasons.
The most obvious one of them is
is on the outside. But the remembrance of Allah is on the
inside. This is the Al-Kitab with Hikmah together.
Isn't it?
Because Sula'a is Kitab and
Vikrullah is Hikmah
and they got fused again.
So you don't get to separate them from each other.
One is the matter of our actions and the other
is the matter of our hearts. We also now learn
what is the ultimate goal
of the Friday prayer is to
truly engage in the remembrance of Allah.
So now the concept of remembering Allah
A couple of comments about that
before i give you your break.
We are not going to be done about this quickly
because there is lots to discuss here
But I'll just tell you something about the Zikr of Allah.
When somebody says I'm doing Zikr nowadays
what do they think of?
Spill it now, smell it fried.
Spill ourselves and spread hضa orui
through camera splay
sarfazawaza ouruper
or
Or do they have the beat
situation?
they move that be I'm impressed with the way they move the bee
...machines and zickers
right and now you have like people that have digital like pretty soon you're
gonna get the AI to do your zicker for you
Zikr turned into this weird thing.
I mean obviously you could do that stuff fine but it turned into this other institution
that actually started getting further and further away from what Allah was describing
as zikr, the remembrance of Allah.
The remembrance of Allah says,
Andadina yathkoluna allaha qiyaman wa qurootan wa a'la junubihim.
They remember Allah standing, sitting and on their sides.
The Prophet ﷺ taught us, when you walk into a home, make this dua,
when you walk into the bathroom, make this dua, when you start eating,
say Bismillahirrahmanirrahim.
When you wake up, make this dua, when you go to sleep, make this dua,
when you're with your wife, make this dua, when you get in the car,
make this dua, when you reach your destination, make this dua.
When you hear some good news, make this dua, when there's rain, make this dua,
when it's hot outside, make this dua.
Oh my God!
What is that? What is all of that?
That's the zikr of Allah.
Let's remember it. Any opportunity in life, it just becomes remembrance of Allah.
It's not a generic set of words.
Those words have value of course, Alhamdulillah, SubhanAllah, Astaghfirullah.
Those are heartfelt words and we're supposed to do the width of those words.
That has its own place.
But the actual zikr of Allah was in life situations.
And it's not supposed to be some kind of a posturing or a kind of a demonstration of your spirituality.
Like when somebody walks in that you don't like and you say,
Astaghfirullah Al-Azim, or La Huda Wa La Quwwata Al-Labin,
or people sometimes say Alhamdulillah and other times they say,
Alhamdulillah Wa Alah Kulli Had.
Meaning Alhamdulillah no matter what.
Even though you're here.
You know?
And those are, that's not zikr.
That's just you trying to slap someone with religious terms.
That's not, let's not call that zikr.
Zikr is done from the heart.
And zikr is done with genuinely you remember Allah and the ultimate thing,
the ultimate component of zikr.
What does the Quran say about the Quran itself?
He says,
It is nothing but zikr.
This is the description of what?
The Quran.
In it, no doubt there is a powerful zikr for anyone who has a heart.
فذكر بالقرآن من يخافوا عيد.
Remind with the Quran, whoever fears my threats.
Remind with the Quran.
No, no, no.
It is a very powerful reminder.
Whoever wants can remember it.
Remember what?
The Quran.
بالقرآن اذذذكر.
I swear by the Quran that has the power of zikr.
What's the ultimate zikr according to the Quran?
The Quran.
The Quran.
And but when he says,
The remembrance of Allah, Allah is not talking about the sounds of the Quran.
Allah is talking about the message of the Quran that impacts the heart.
So our connection, the more intimate we become in our connection with the Quran,
our recitation is going to become more spiritual.
By the way, even if you don't understand Arabic and you listen to recitation, you'll feel something.
You'll feel a connection.
But the more you start learning the Quran, even indirectly, little by little by little,
and you listen to the same recitation, it will hit you differently and then differently again and then differently again.
And I'm guaranteeing you, Arabic is not the key to understanding the Quran.
Arabic is one of many doors, many locks that have to be unlocked in the heart.
It's just one key, but there are many gates.
And those gates, the more you spend time with the Allah's Book, you will recognize those other gates.
They, each one of you have different gates inside of them that are locked.
I was in a, because I'm going to give you your break, I'll just remind you guys of one of the most amazing experiences in my life.
I went with Dr. Soheb to something called Dawrat al-Quran.
Dawrat al-Quran.
We went to Allah and Masqat.
And we spent a week there.
And what sheikh, you know, our Dawood, was non-sat-ta'a, on the first day was so amazing.
The whole program was in Arabic.
We spent an entire week living in the Masjid.
Nobody, like we were the only, I think we were the only two non-Arab's there, me and me and Dr. Soheb, right?
And of course I'm going to be like super Pakistani.
So I wore Shalakamiz the whole time because I'm not going to pretend to be Arab.
Listen, so, because I'm not, but so, but anyway, so we're there the whole week.
And then first, and he said,
And you know, among you are scholars, among you are Islamic court judges, among you are hadith scholars.
I was like, as he said, among you are taxi drivers.
I was like, okay, we're okay now.
But nobody knows who anybody is.
Nobody knows. He goes, and he goes,
Alhamdulillah, we understand Arabic.
We understand the Quran when it is recited.
When the Quran is recited, honestly, we understand it.
Well, I can, but there are walls between us, our hearts and the Quran.
And the walls aren't just about knowledge because we have the knowledge, but there's still walls.
We're going to spend a week trying to break those walls between us, our hearts and the Quran.
And he said, we're going to do something called Qiraat-Qalb.
We're going to recite, there's a mind reading of the Quran.
There's a mindful reading of the Quran and there's a heart reading of the Quran.
We're going to do a heart reading of the Quran.
A Qalb, Qiraat-Qalb, the Quran.
That's what we're going to do.
I'm telling you, this was one of the most unreal Quran experiences of my life.
We would sit there and we would recite the same ayat.
I've heard those ayat hundreds of times.
But we're sitting there and Sheikh Tawtul-Sahab would recite,
Fadi Qul Isbaha.
And we would all repeat after him, Fadi Qul Isbaha.
Wajahadan Laila Sakana.
Wajahadan Laila Sakana.
The one who opens the, the one who makes the morning tear out from the sky.
And the one who made the night calm.
And we're sitting in the masjid, we're reciting this.
And you look outside and right after Fajr, the morning light is coming out.
And you're looking at that and you're hearing Allah say,
Fadi Qul Isbaha.
Wajahadan Laila Sakana.
And it's like you heard that for the first time.
You can read the tafsid, you can read the grammar, you can do all that.
But now you're not reading from your mind, you're reading from.
Rahfah Sa'aw Illa Adhiklinda.
Come to Allah's remembrance.
Bring your heart to the Jum'ah prayer.
Bring your heart to it.
That's its point.
Some people complain,
O the Khudbah, who's always talking about the same thing.
We need some new information.
Why is it always saying the same thing?
What is the, what is the definition of reminder?
Is reminder something new?
By definition, reminder is something that you forgot.
You need to be told again and then again and then again and then again.
So the Khudbah needs to be actually the vikr of Allah.
So I'm going to give you guys your break at this point in the ayah.
BarakAllahu Alaykum.
Assalamu alaikum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world that are interested on top of the students
we have in studying the Quran and its meanings and being able to learn that and share that
with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV, please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much and pray that Allah gives our mission success and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran
and the beauty of it the world over.
