Isn't this something that's supposed to be heard?
Yatlu a'adayhim a'ayati?
You're not wondering about it.
You're not being brought close.
You're not reaching conviction.
This is our first failure.
When we say,
Oh, the ummah is going in a bad direction.
What do we do?
Well, the prophet was given a formula.
Here's step one.
But I want step 17.
No.
Step one.
Yatlu a'adayhim a'ayati.
The Prophet
So we did me and Finn,
Fee and Min.
But I will tell you now a little bit about the...
I'll introduce this now,
but we'll go into detail tomorrow,
inshallah.
And that is
that Allah chose a nation
since the time of Musa A.S.
He chose a nation to be the carriers of His word.
That was the sons of Israel.
He chose them and he gave them his book,
at Ta'urat.
And they were chosen and given preference
over all other nations in the world.
This is what the Quran itself tells us.
Okay?
We fadladnaakum ale ala alameen.
We gave you preference over all other nations.
No other nation had this many prophets.
No other nation had this many chances
to live by and demonstrate the truth of Allah's book.
Over time,
not all the Israelites,
but a group among them,
developed a certain kind of superiority complex.
Okay?
Now this is really important.
We hate it
when somebody quotes something from the Quran
and says,
all these Muslims, this is what they believe.
You see?
It says, like, some of our, you know,
back home,
ah, these Muslims.
Look at what it says in their Quran.
It says, kill them wherever you find them.
This is what they believe.
They want to kill you wherever they find you.
It says it right here in your book.
We hate that because we know
that's,
you're taking it out of context.
You don't know what that means.
And you could have just asked one of us,
but you would rather quote something out of place,
and then we get really offended.
We shouldn't do that to their books.
Because we hate it ourselves.
We shouldn't take one quote from the Bible here,
one quote from the Bible saying,
look at what these people believe.
Look at what's in their book.
Look at, no, no, that's not fair.
That's not fair.
And when some Muslims do something bad,
and they say all Muslims are like this,
we hate it.
But if some Jews or some Christians do something wrong,
and we take the sum and say what?
All Christians are like this.
We hate it.
Is that justice?
Is that fair?
Is that a double standard?
We should be people of justice.
The Quran is actually extremely just
in the way it deals with the Christians and the Jews.
And our relationship with the Jews
and our relationship with the Christians
is very interesting in the Quran.
It's not one relationship.
It's multiple relationships.
It's not one relationship.
On the one hand,
one of the audiences of the Quran are the rabbis
and the priests.
That's one specific audience.
They're called Ahlul Kitab in the Quran.
Allah talks to them and says what?
Ahlul Kitab.
And that's referring not to all Christians
and all Jews.
Who's it referring to?
The rabbis and the priests.
Our religion, the book,
targeted the most knowledgeable people
in their religion
and had a conversation with them.
That's number one.
Another audience in the Quran
is the historical Jews
and the historical Christians,
some of them who made some very serious mistakes.
And he criticizes the some of them
that made very serious mistakes.
By the way, in Islamic history,
since the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
are there some Muslims and Muslim nations
and governments that made very serious mistakes?
Yeah.
Now, though, what we like to do
when we talk about Islamic history,
we talk about Salah-e-Din.
Like, we talk about Rasul Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
Abu Bakr, Omar,
Othman, Ali-Radiullah, and Amr.
Okay, golden years, fast forward.
Salah-e-Din, fast forward right now.
And all the chapters of Islamic history
that are not so glorious,
where we did not so nice things,
where we may have committed some part of genocide,
or we may have colluded and done something wrong,
we kind of
skip those chapters and say,
You're unmar.
You say, beautiful.
I have to get the unmar back.
And you're like,
Yes, unmar.
Even though you don't...
Can you tell me the history of the Oman
the last 200 years?
300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800 years?
Can you tell me?
Can you tell me what the rule was like?
Can you tell me what...
You know, no, no, no, but overall, we were good.
Overall, they were bad.
Overall, we were good.
You know what that is?
That's delusional thinking.
And that's dishonesty.
That's intellectual dishonesty.
The Israelites had an issue.
Some of them.
They looked at their history and only focused on the good parts.
Oh, look, we are the people of Ibrahim,
we're the people of Musa,
we're the people of this,
we're the people of this.
Allah spoke to us on the mountain.
We're so special because of this reason,
this reason, this reason, this reason, this reason.
And what did they skip?
The embarrassing parts of their history.
They skipped those parts.
Not all of them did this,
but some of them did this.
By the way, does that sound like a familiar disease?
The Muslims have selective citation of history?
Did we develop our psychology based on selective chapters of history?
Yeah.
Why is the Prophet telling us you're going to become like them?
Same.
And then what does Allah do in the Quran?
Especially in Surat Al-Baqara.
He highlights a part of their history that they don't like to talk about.
He highlighted the ugly chapters of Israelite history.
And that even said,
Well, ya'af, anka thir, and by the way,
there's a lot that I'm skipping.
There's a lot more,
but this should be enough for you to get the point.
There's a lot more dirty laundry.
But why was Allah doing this?
It was not to humiliate the Israelites.
It was actually to teach Muslims something,
which is what?
Be honest with yourselves.
And then the other part of the Israelite history,
in the Quran,
so we've got the rabbis and the priests being talked to,
selective history being addressed.
Among some of them,
the third, there are heroes in Israelite history.
That are our heroes.
Not just their prophets.
وَكَأَيْمِ النَّبِيْنْ قَاتَلَمَ عَهُرِ بِيْوْنَا كَثِيرْ
When Muslims were about to go into the battle of Uhud,
you know who their inspiration was in the Quran?
Those who fought alongside the Israelite prophets.
Who were they?
The Israelites.
The Jews of that time.
They were be considered the Muslims of that time.
And they are our inspiration in the Quran.
Actually.
So what I'm saying is,
we think that the Quran paints one stroke,
one picture of who the Jews are,
one picture of who the Christians are in the Quran.
That is absolutely not the case.
In some places of certain groups, highly critical.
In some places of certain groups, praising.
And in the current times,
the Muslims would be like,
No, we know something about the historical Jews.
Some of them were praiseworthy.
Some of them were criticism worthy.
But what about the Jews we're living with in Medina?
What about them?
Allah says,
وَمَنْهُمْ مَنْ اِنْتَ مَنْهُبِقِنْطَارِنْ يُؤْدِّهِ لَيْكَ
وَمَنْهُمْ مَنْ اِنْتَ مَنْهُبِدِيْنَارِ لَيْوَدِّهِ لَيْكَ
Among them are people,
if you trusted them with piles and piles of wealth,
they will give it back to you 100%.
And among them, there are those,
if you give them even one penny,
they will not give it back to you.
And the second group,
so the first one,
and by the way, he mentioned the honest ones first.
He prioritized the honest ones.
He even said about them,
وَمَا يَفْعَلُوا مِنْ خَيْرٍ فَلَنْ يُكْفَرُواهُ
The good deeds they do, they will not be denied of them.
This is Quran.
This is Quran.
And then he said,
and the ones that will not even give you back one penny,
he said one thing about them.
He said,
ذَالِكَ بِأَنْ نَقَالُوا لَيْسَ عَلَيْسَ عَلَيْنَ فِي الْأُمْمِيِّينَ سَبِيلَ
That's because they said,
when it comes to the J...
الْأُمْمِيِّينَ
You heard the word,
الْأُمْمِيِّينَ لَيْسَ عَلَيْنَ فِي الْأُمْمِيِّينَ سَبِيلَ
Among...
When it comes to these uneducated people,
these un-blessed people,
we don't owe them anything.
So among them, an extreme group came,
not all of them,
but an extreme group came within them,
and what beliefs did they develop?
They developed a belief that if you steal from,
they considered the rest of the world impure.
Najas.
Okay, the ones that were pure are the...
These realites, everybody else's?
Najas.
And since they're najas,
if a najas steals from me,
if an impure one steals from me,
they better pay me back.
But if I steal from them,
I don't have to pay them back.
And they developed that mentality.
And the Qur'an came in what?
Attack that mentality.
Those are the ones that can't be trusted.
Now, fast forward.
I'm in Europe,
fun place,
in a country that shall not be named.
And I met a brother.
I was like,
Masha'Allah, I'm...
I have one son.
His name is Muhammad.
I was like, beautiful name.
I was like, yeah, but I told the government,
I have four sons,
and I spelled Muhammad M-U-H-A,
M-O-H-A, M-O-U-H-A,
with a double M, with a single M.
And I get benefits for four sons.
I collect four checks from the kufar.
Masha'Allah.
I don't even pay rent.
Alhamdulillah.
I was like, oh,
I've heard this.
I've seen this before.
You can steal from them because they're what?
I go, father, let us steal from them.
This was something that we,
the Quran criticized this about a group of people before.
But whose behavior is this?
This is now,
not all Muslims,
but some Muslims, absolutely.
Absolutely their behavior.
So this mentality,
this mindset,
is actually what the Quran criticizes.
However, now,
among them were those who said,
these ummiyyn are less.
Then they developed other narratives.
The Abraham had two children.
The children of,
or the lineases,
the children of Isaac and the children of Ishmael.
Ishaq and Isma'id.
And they developed an entire literature
how Isma'id is not even legitimate,
which is according to the Bible, not true.
He is legitimate in the Bible.
Oh, Isma'id is not really his son.
Or Isma'id is the cursed son.
So all of his children are going to be what?
They're going to be cursed, right?
The cursed line of Ishmael.
I've even heard sermons and churches about that.
The cursed line of Ishmael.
Then they developed some of the,
developed this concept of the non-Jews being goyim.
Goyim is their word for ummi.
Uneducated, unlettered.
They don't know what the wahi is.
But they became so extreme.
Some of them became so extreme.
Even the Jews among them
that did not belong to their elite class,
they were also called goyim.
Also called ummiyyn.
So they get even more exclusive.
Now, of course, Muslims don't do this.
Muslims don't have some group that says
we're the right ones.
Everybody else is going to Jahannam.
And then eventually they say
we're the only few Muslims that are right.
And all the other Muslims, 72 sects,
are all going to burn in Jahannam.
Thank God I belong to the special Golden Club.
Mutahar Club, right?
Because everybody else is just nudges.
I don't know.
I don't even know if I should pray next to these people.
I don't even know if I can say salam to them or...
So forget their condescending view
of the rest of humanity.
They even developed a condescending view
of fellow believers.
And this is not new.
This happened already in what history?
In Israelite history.
And our prophet told us,
لزت بيعن صدر الذين من قبلكم
You will end up following the ways
of the people who came before you.
Allah says in this ayah,
He sent a messenger.
And raised them among who?
The Umayyin,
the people that the Israelites considered what?
Nudges.
The people that were unworthy.
The people from the cursed line of Ismail.
In the previous ayah,
He used the word on Qudus,
the holy, the pure.
And the Israelites believed because of that name.
Who did He make pure?
Them.
Some of them even developed this fatwa
that whoever stood under the mountain,
and their children are forever pure.
And whoever was not under the mountain,
their children are forever impure.
Cool.
So now Allah takes this concept of superiority
and says,
By the way,
I'm going to send a messenger.
And whom am I going to send it among?
The Umayyin.
Umayyin, by the way,
really cool word.
Really epic word.
Umayyin has a couple of meanings.
One, belonging to a certain nation from Ummah.
So these were nationalistic people.
Or ethnic peoples.
But Ummah also means,
Ka'annahu Kharaja min Ummi.
As if he knows nothing like the day
he came out of his mother.
Ummi means mother, right?
Ummi means so uneducated,
so unknowledgeable about the work,
about the revelation, about God,
about prophets.
As if he just came out of his mother.
No background, no history,
no intellectual, scholarly history, nothing.
Allah decided to send a messenger among these people.
Could Allah have sent a messenger among the Roman Empire?
Among the Greeks who have a history of philosophy?
Among the Chinese who have poetry, literature?
Among the Indians who have the Sanskrit philosophies?
And they were into the Persians?
There were so many civilizations in the world
that have long standing intellectual histories
and empires and civilizations.
And the one place in the world that was forgotten
that nobody knows about, nobody cares.
Is what?
That Arabian desert, man.
There's a Roman Empire on this side.
There's the Persian Empire on that side.
There's the Abyssinian Empire on that side.
And even they don't care that you're in the middle
because this is sand.
They don't want to expand into this territory.
Let them be. Let these shepherds do their thing.
Let these camel herders do their thing.
Who cares about them?
They are a forgotten chapter of history.
When you go across the Khalij,
when you go across the desert of Hijaz,
did you see ancient palaces?
Did you see the ruins of great civilizations?
Did you see it?
Nothing.
These people have no education, no background.
And they just go and they go towards Syria,
and they go towards Yemen,
and they do their little trade.
Sometimes they end up in Roman territory near Syria.
Sometimes they go towards the Africa
and make a little bit of money here,
make a little bit of money there.
And they're a great city.
It's a city that happens to have a well.
That's like, oh my God, you're in Makkah.
Makkah is nice. You got a well.
It's got burnt rock.
It's got insanely hot temperate.
How many people have been to Makkah?
Does it look like a tourist attraction
if it wasn't for the haram?
Would a human being have any reason
to go to Makkah if it wasn't for the Ka'bah?
Like what?
When you go there,
the Horses Allah, you would rather...
People walk, people get up late for the Horses Allah,
so they end up praying inside the mall.
So they don't have to pray.
Because the beating Sun, man, the beating...
And among them, a less-than-to-messenger?
Among them?
First, he describes the ultimate king of all kings,
and then he takes the most forgotten,
the most, like, kind of unimportant part of the world map.
You know?
The insignificant part of the world map
and says, yep, right here.
Why? Because thousands of years before,
there was a man named Ibrahim A.S.
who built his house in this unknown desert
and made a dua thousands of years ago.
Ya Allah, send a messenger among these people
and bring people's hearts towards this hot desert
where nobody's heart would want to go.
People would rather go to Hawaii,
they would rather go to California,
they would rather go to Switzerland,
they would rather go to New Zealand,
they would rather go anywhere else, not here.
But ya Allah, bring people's hearts here
and give them, give, send them a messenger here.
Thousands of years ago, there was no recorder at the time,
there was no microphone, there was no camera that recorded this,
there was no writer who wrote this down,
it was just him and God talking.
Ya Allah, send a messenger among these people
that are going to settle here.
That's this dua.
And thousands of years after that,
what does Allah do?
He decides to send among these people
who have been pagan for centuries.
By the way, the house that Abraham built
is surrounded by what?
Idols for centuries.
These are pagan people.
Even if we lived at the time,
we were like, oh, Mushrikun,
enna ma al Mushrikun al Najas,
the Mushrikun al Najas, they're filthy.
The Zut-e-Quran describes them,
people of Shirkah are dirty,
because spiritual dirt is on them.
So the Israelites consider them unworthy, dirty.
Look, they're pagans, they're idol worshipers.
Look at what they believe, these false religions.
And among them, Allah decides to send a messenger.
Suhan Allah.
What a decision Allah made,
the king of all kings.
And the way he's going to describe that decision,
that he let them, it's not even,
and I know it's time,
he could have been an Arab from among them,
but he was raised among the Romans.
So he knows higher society, you know?
Or he was raised among the Greek,
or he was raised among the Persian,
so he gets to know what royalty is like.
You know, like Musa'a al-Asa'alam was among the Israelites,
but he was raised where?
He was raised in the palace.
So Allah could have raised the prophets
like Suhan Allah in a palace somewhere,
and then he can come and bring higher education to his people.
No, he was raised within them.
He's from them and he's within them.
The highest education the human being,
humanity ever received as the word of Allah,
and it came in a place that was the least educated,
arguably on earth.
That's where it began, from absolute zero.
From absolute zero.
And there, today you and I are sitting here.
SubhanAllah.
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know
and encourage you that I want you to sign up
for bayinatv.com and help other sign up,
or even sponsor students for bayinatv.com
so we can create worldwide communities of students
that are studying the meanings and the benefit
and the wisdom of the Quran,
and are insha'Allah ta'ala spreading that in their own circles.
Thanks so much.
In ayah number two of Surat al-Jum'ah,
Allah will not just introduce us
where and how He raised this messenger,
which we talked about in the last session.
Allah will introduce us to four things
that the messenger is going to do.
His mission is being summarized
as four tasks.
Okay?
And this is almost as if
there's what he's supposed to do,
what his goal is, is actually mentioned in Surah Tussaf.
In the previous Surah, Allah mentioned
what is the goal of sending the messenger.
But every time you have a goal,
you have to have a method so you can reach that goal.
You have to have a formula, a practice to reach that goal.
To make it super simple, if somebody says,
I want you to become good enough so you can join the team,
then they have to have a training program,
some kind of formula they have to follow,
then they can get there.
What is the regiment that he's going to follow?
This ayah is about the method,
the process of the Prophet,
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
And before we get into that process,
I just want you to know that this process is forever true.
Like this isn't just, it was started by the Prophet,
alayhi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
and then it was passed down until judgment day
for the ummah to learn that this is the process to do what?
This is the process to bring about change.
Now there are two kinds of change.
There's change inside a person,
and there's change inside society.
You see around you someone who was not praying,
they were drinking alcohol,
they were basically kind of practically not a Muslim,
and then something changed,
and they became a completely different person.
The way the people they hang out with,
the way they spend their time, their prayers,
their drinking and eating habits,
everything changed.
There was a revolution inside them,
and they became a completely different individual.
That's personal change.
And then because of that one person,
maybe their friends, some of them started changing.
Maybe their community started changing a little bit.
And those kinds of changes happen every day.
There are people that experience these amazing transformations.
So many of you have come up to me and told me,
hey, I wasn't even praying five months ago,
or I wasn't even wearing hijab a year ago,
or four months ago, or five months ago, etc.
There are changes happening even in this room.
And some of you are,
and it's not like the change is complete,
you're still changing, you're still on the road to change.
The problem happens is when we see the world,
and we see that it's getting worse, right?
And disobedience to Allah is increasing,
and chaos is increasing,
and shamelessness is increasing,
and disbelief is increasing,
and confusion is increasing,
we get depressed,
because we see the big picture looks worse and worse and worse.
And when you look at the big picture,
it does look pretty depressing.
And what that does is it makes you blind
to the individual changes.
Because it feels like the individual changes are not enough,
because real change is when it happens on a very large scale.
If you think about the life of the Prophet,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
if Allah wanted big change to happen from the beginning,
Allah would have sent the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
to the economic or the political capitals or centers of the world.
But Allah sent the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
to a place that was not an economic player,
not a cap, not a political player,
not a social player, not a cultural player,
not an educational center,
it was not a contributor to the world.
You could say about the Chinese,
they were contributing silk,
or they were contributing other fine goods or arts to the world.
You could say things about the Romans, the Persians,
the other civilizations were players on the world scene,
and trade and craft and civilization and empire building, all of it.
What were the ancient Arabs doing in the desert?
They had some empires back in the day,
some large stretches of empire,
but that was gone for centuries and centuries.
They were not players on the world stage.
And even the changes that the Prophet brought,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
and the Quran that kept teaching this message,
what are some of the Quran's greatest heroes?
There are people like Nuh Alaihi Wasallam.
And if you study the life of Nuh Alaihi Wasallam,
and you say, I want to see the big change that was brought by Nuh Alaihi Wasallam.
What's his progress report after 10 years?
And what's the, you know, because you're in your company,
you have to have a progress report, right?
How much more did your sphere of influence grow
after 50 years, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500?
950 years. Where's the progress?
You didn't even make progress with your own son?
What is this?
You don't call this, but they are heroes in the Quran.
And Ibrahim Alaihi Wasallam, this is called the religion of Ibrahim Alaihi Wasallam,
couldn't even convince his own dad, could he?
And Yaqub Alaihi Wasallam couldn't convince his own sons for a long time.
You couldn't do that.
Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam was sent to the Quraysh
and the vast majority of them for the first 13 years, did they believe or not?
No, the vast majority of them didn't believe.
But the few people that did believe,
the few people that did believe are actually the reason we're Muslim today.
Those few people, what is the Quran teaching us about change?
Change does not come at the hands of the millions.
Change comes at the hands of the few.
It is actually individual transformation that is vital.
That is the most important objective.
Actually the victory from Allah and the millions of people accepting Islam and all that stuff,
that's in the hands of Allah.
That's in the hands of Allah.
But individuals have to experience and the bishans of the prophets
is actually to bring about an individual transformation.
These ayat are about the process of an individual transformation.
How does a person transform?
When we learn that properly, then you can see how a family might transform.
When you learn that enough, then you can see how a community might transform.
It starts like a pebble when you throw it in the water.
It's one pebble, but it has ripples and ripples and ripples and ripples.
But the first thing is actually the individual transformation, isn't it?
That's what this ayat is actually about.
How did this transformation actually take place in the hearts of these individuals?
It's going to be based on four steps.
These are the four steps of the Prophet ﷺ bringing about this transformation that Allah gave him.
So if you think about the, especially the last name of Allah, al-Hakim, his wisdom,
he decided that this should be the strategy to bring about consistent change.
So it begins with yatlu'a alayhim ayatihi.
He reads onto them his ayat.
And this is probably where we're going to take our discussion today this far.
And then we'll do the other three steps tomorrow in shall I complete this.
Read, so tada yatlu'a alayhim.
We say he narrates the ayat or he reads the ayat onto them.
Atilu is used for young animals which follow their mother.
Walad ul-Himar, walad ul-Naqqa, they're called tilwining.
Wherever the mom goes, the baby follows.
You know, some babies are difficult, like Afghan babies, right?
They run away from their parents, but some babies are very clingy.
Wherever the mom goes, mama, mama, mama, mama.
Like they just kind of, you don't even have to put a tracker on them or nothing.
It was just automatic magnetic field, right?
And some kids, you have to literally tie them up with a, now they come with baby leashes.
I've seen those things now, right?
So that the kid doesn't, you know, disappear.
But when certain animals, they know that if they stray away from the mother, they're going to get killed.
So they just stick very close to the mother.
They follow her step by step.
And those kinds of animals are called tilwan.
At-tulawa is the remainder of a thing, meaning what follows behind a thing.
Taqiyatu shay'a'amatan.
Tattalla is to follow something closely or repeatedly.
Tattab'uhu.
Allah even says,
wa shamsi idha ad-dhuhaha wa al-qamari idha.
Tadah, tadah in Arabic, when the moon follows the sun.
The moon follows the sun, so the word following is tadah.
So what does this word have to do with reading?
When someone's reading something, their eyes are following to the next word.
You're pronouncing this word, but your eyes are already on the next word.
You're following and following and following, and your fingers and your eyes are following the text.
And that's actually called tida'wa, to follow.
And Allah used this word really interestingly because it's actually a contradiction.
Ummiyin means people that were as uneducated and unlettered as when they came out of their mothers.
And he's actually a prophet that's among the ummiyin.
So how is he reciting something?
How is he reading something?
Allah has given this messenger the ability to read the word of Allah in a rabbi sense.
Meaning that this is not reading from literally a scripture.
It's reading from the angel is teaching him how to read.
An angel is making him read.
And he's actually, instead of following a piece of paper or a piece of leather, following it,
he's actually following the instructions of who?
Jibril, alayhi salam.
So he's actually still following, which is a really powerful expression.
Yatlu alayhim.
But what is he reciting?
Now, if those of you that are a little bit familiar with Arabic, it's actually
Yatlu alayhim.
The maf'ool bihi comes first.
The jarr majroor, mta'adat bel-firil comes second.
But this is muqaddam.
Now I'll speak in human.
What that means is Allah is saying, He, especially on these people, these ummiyin, he recites.
Meaning the Quran came especially first targeting these audience from their,
so the Quran will use expressions that are used in Arabic by these people in their culture.
It'll use sayings that they're used to.
It'll use examples that they're used to.
It'll use language that they're used to.
It's not going to use some high level language.
It's going to use the people's language because he's going to recite especially for them.
Allah, the owner of all wisdom.
Allah has all knowledge.
There's no knowledge of physics or chemistry or biology or history or anthropology,
any science in the world or beyond the world.
There's no knowledge that Allah doesn't have.
And you know, the more someone knows, the more complicated their speech becomes.
Have you ever tried talking to a PhD?
It's not a normal conversation because their vocabulary causes aesthetics, right?
When they speak, it's just really hard because they don't know how to come down to the rest of us peasants.
They stay up here, right?
Allah, knower of all things, you would expect, will speak in the most complicated ways
because he's the knower of all things.
But what did he do?
He decided to speak to the least educated people in the world
and then he decided to speak to them in a way that they can understand.
And so he sent a messenger whose accent, whose cultural expressions,
whose upbringing they're familiar with.
So first he chose the teacher that will be the most familiar to them
and then he chose his words that would be the easiest for them to understand.
Why is this important?
Because as you will see in the next ayah tomorrow, inshallah,
Allah's plan was nobody should say, my words are too complicated.
I don't get it.
Nobody should have that excuse because this wasn't sent to scholars, it was sent to who?
Umayyin.
The Umayyin, you see?
So it was meant for everybody.
If Umayyin can handle it, anybody can handle it.
If they can understand it, what excuse you got left?
You see?
And what did the Israelites do with their book?
No, no, no, no, no.
They told the average follower among the Israelites,
you can't read the book.
No, no, no, it's not for you.
You're going to get misguided.
Let us read it.
We'll tell you what it says.
Because if you read it, then you're just going to go to hell.
It's not for you.
Alhamdulillah, Muslims didn't do that.
Tell the average Muslim, no, no, no, don't read the Quran.
It's not for you.
This is for the scholars.
They read it and they'll tell you what it says.
Don't try to read it on your own.
It's better for you to just listen to some recitation, put it on YouTube and cook your food.
Okay?
That's for you.
Understanding the book, that's just for the scholars.
This was something the Israelites did and Alhamdulillah, the Muslims don't even ever think about that.
Okay.
Anyway, now I'll tell you something amazing.
What did I tell you about the Israelites?
Some Israelites, they started believing they are special and everybody else is Goyim.
Everybody else is Ummi.
Okay?
I'm going to tell you something.
Every time I read these ayat, I feel like it's the first time I'm reading them.
This is a long set of ayat.
I'm just going to read them and translate them for you and just appreciate what Allah says.
This is from Surah Al-Araf.
Wa khtarah Musa qalmahu s-sir'ina rajul an-dimiqatina.
Allah, Musa al-Aliy salam chose his people, chose 70 people from his people, 70 leaders, to meet with us.
So now Musa al-Aliy salam, you remember the story when they worshiped the calf?
Right?
Musa al-Aliy salam left and then behind him just ended up worshiping the golden calf, right?
Now when they did that, Allah wanted to hold them responsible.
So Allah said, bring your leaders to me, I will speak to them directly.
So now he used to speak to who directly before?
Musa.
But Allah says, no, I want to speak to your tribe leaders, the elders.
So Musa al-Aliy salam chose how many leaders?
70, to meet with Allah.
Limiqatina for our meeting.
So they came to the mountain to meet with Allah.
Then the mountain started shaking.
So when they took the calf, when the earthquake started rumbling and they're all shaking,
Musa is there, 70 leaders are there, they think they're about to die,
boulders are falling from the mountain.
Musa al-Aliy salam spoke, Allah said, if you had wanted, you would have killed them already.
Before we ever came here, you would have killed everybody, you would have killed me too.
Why are you shaking it like this?
Are you killing us because of what the fools did among us?
Is that what you're doing, Ya Rabb?
He's in shock and he's asking Allah,
Inhiya illa fitna, he goes, no, no, no, this is nothing but a trial.
This is nothing but a test that you're doing with us.
Tudil lubiha mantasha'u wa tahdi mantasha'u
You will allow whoever you want to be misguided because of this test.
And you will allow whoever to be guided because of this test.
So one of the lessons here, side lesson is when Allah shakes your life up,
it will either misguide you or guide you.
Some people get their life shakes up and they say, you know what, I used to be a Muslim,
but Allah shook my life up, that's it, I don't pray anymore.
What's the point? Allah shook my life up, you see.
And other people, Allah shakes their life up and they weren't praying before
and all of a sudden they're in Sajda.
Tudil lubiha mantasha'u wa tahdi mantasha'u
With what? With the shaking.
Anta wali yuna, you are our protecting friend.
Faqfil lana warhamna.
Forgive us, show us your love and care.
Wa anta qayru l-ghafireen, and you are the best of those who forgives.
Who's speaking right now?
Musa is speaking, the mountain is shaking, the 70 leaders are with him,
he's speaking to Allah and he keeps speaking.
Wa qtub lana fi hadhi hid dunya hasana.
Please guarantee for us, right for us, in this life, beautiful things,
wa fil ahira, and in the next life,
inna al-hudna ilayk, I'll come back to this tomorrow.
We turn back to you.
Hadha yahudu means to turn back. We turn back to you.
Meaning we're making Toba to you.
We came here asking for forgiveness, me and these 70 leaders.
Now Allah will respond.
I want you to remember where this is happening.
This is Musa and 70 leaders of the Israelites
and they have come under the mountain.
And later on, some groups of them believed
whoever was under the mountain with Musa is forever what?
Forever pure everybody else is?
Impure, that's the belief they developed.
Now this is the Quran's version of the same story.
The Quran retelling the story. Listen, now Allah will respond.
Allah says, qala aadha bi usibubihi man asha.
My punishment?
I will strike it to whoever I want.
I'll strike my punishment to whoever I want.
Did you say you're protected from my punishment?
No, you said no. I will strike my punishment down to
but my loving care extends to everything.
So my punishment is targeted but my rahma is everywhere.
My rahma doesn't have to be targeted because it's already everywhere
but my punishment is targeted. See the difference in language?
So I will write this to those who are watching this.
And those who believe in our ayat.
Those who are going to follow the messenger,
who's the prophet, who is unlettered,
the one they find written with them,
in the Torah and in the Injil.
Meaning Allah is telling them on the mountain,
right now you have Torah and later on there will be a prophet
who will give you another book called what?
Injil and in both of these books you will find that there is a prophet coming.
He's a prophet, he's a messenger, he's unlettered
and he's mentioned in both of these scriptures
and I will guarantee my mercy for you if you follow him.
Under the mountain.
Under the...
When ha'hum anil munkili, that messenger will come,
he will tell them to do the right thing
and he will stop them from doing the wrong thing
and he will make good and pure things for them
and he will make filthy things impermissible for them
and he will remove from them their burdens
and their chains that used to be on them.
Meaning Allah is already telling them
you will have a life of burdens and chains
and those burdens and chains will be removed by who?
By the prophet who will come.
He will come and he will remove those burdens and chains
فَالَّذِينَ آْمَنُوا بِهِ
Then those who believe in him, in who?
Who's the him here?
The Sulla S.
وَعَزَّرُواهُ
And they support him
وَنَّصَرُواهُ
And they aid him
And they honor him and they aid him
وَتَّبَعُ النُورَ اللَّذِيْ اُنْزِلَ معهُ
And they follow the light that was sent,
that will be sent down with him.
What's the light that is sent down with him?
The Quran.
وَلَا إِكَهُمُ الْمُفْلِحُونَ
Those are the people that are successful.
This is a conversation about the Annabi Al-Ummi
that was had first with Musa and his 70 followers.
One of the earliest teachings
to the followers of Musa, the Bani Israel,
and then it was reinforced in which book?
It wasn't just in Torah, it's where else?
Indeed, it was given to who?
That's why Isa says in the Quran
وَمُبَشِّرًا بِرَسُولٍ يَاْتِيمٍ بَعْدِسْمُهُ أَحْمَدْ
I have come to give you good news of a messenger
who's coming after me, whose name is Ahmed,
which is in the previous Surah.
Okay, this is in Surah al-Saf.
So Musa is telling of the coming of Muhammad,
and Isa, Al-Islam, is telling of the coming of Muhammad,
so according to that, both the Christian, the Jewish peoples,
and their scripture, the ones who know among them
will know that Muhammad is the messenger of Allah,
salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So when he says he sent among the Ummi-een a messenger,
people who were loyal to the scripture would say,
among the Ummi-een?
Hey, wait, among the Ummi-een?
Every generation of the Israelites from Musa, al-Ali-salaam,
later on in their prophets, like all the Israelites,
Suleiman, Dawood, every one of them follow Torah,
and that means every one of them knows who's coming.
Muhammad, al-Salaam, is coming, they're waiting, they're waiting,
they're waiting, they're waiting, all these generations, they're waiting.
And Allah even says in Surah al-Baqarah,
that the Israelites who lived in the region,
sometimes they would get into a fight with the Mushrikun of Makkah.
And the Mushrikun of Makkah were better fighters, so they would win.
And when they would win, you know what they would say?
Wa ka'alum bin qablu yas tafti'un a'alalladheena kafaru.
Whenever they would get beat up, they would say,
oh yeah, you won this time.
But we've been studying.
The last prophet is coming any day now, and once he comes,
we're gonna get you so good.
They used to say this whenever they lost a fight.
It's in the Qur'an, Surah al-Baqarah.
And then when analysis,
falamma ja'a, hum ma'arafu,
and when whatever they already knew came,
they denied it.
They denied it.
So they actually used to use,
is tiftaah of the coming of the prophet,
salallahu alayhi wa salam, to the Qur'an.
They used to say to them, by the way,
all the signs are here.
Oh, he's coming.
Our wa la maa, give qabba now it is, anytime now.
He's so coming right now.
And then he came.
Now this is yatlu alayhim.
Now, yatlu, what do we learn from yatlu?
This is really important.
The Bible will tell us of the prophet,
salallahu alayhim, whatever is left of it,
that Allah says about him,
and what's left of the Bible,
I will put my words in his mouth.
See the taura,
the taura is a collection of divine teachings,
but it's not precisely the word of God,
not even according to the rabbis.
It's a collection of memories and teachings.
The closest thing that we have to that
is something like samah hadith,
or some opinions. In fact,
it's a combination of what they consider the word of Allah,
and hadith, and tafsir, and fiqh,
and history, all in one.
You know how in the tafsir of the Quran,
you have the ayah and then you have the commentary?
And taura, where does the ayah end
and where does the commentary begin?
They don't make a distinction.
So they can't tell.
They can't tell. That's what happened over time.
Maybe after I gotta finish my train of thought,
I'll take your question.
But then Allah gave, and this is why Allah says,
or
The Quran confirms what they have in front of them,
because what they have in front of them is a huge tradition.
The mishnah, the taura, is a massive tradition.
And then the talmud, it's all mixed together.
And this is not because they made changes to the word of Allah.
That's a separate problem.
Allah did not give them a word
that was memorized the way that the Quran is memorized.
But they knew a prophet is coming,
who about him said,
I will put my words in his mouth.
Meaning, it won't even be his own words.
He'll be following the words that are given to him.
Yatlu alayhim a'ayati.
Okay, so now,
if I'm speaking to you right now,
imagine, so, I mean, I can give you a German example,
because I don't know any German, except for ya.
And shnel.
But,
it works in many situations.
It's like in traffic.
Like, you know, that's it.
Anyway,
so,
most of the time, okay, so if your child,
sitting at dinner,
your child memorized some poetry in German
and sat there and started reciting that poetry,
would you believe that that's your own child's words,
even though there's no paper in front of them?
Can you tell that's not your child's words?
Because you know how your child speaks.
In fact, even if your parents started doing that,
you'd be like,
where did you get this?
Why did you do this?
And if you really think that's them speaking,
then you contact the Imam
because there's a Jinn possession or something.
Because when someone speaks out of their normal,
you can tell they're not really speaking, they're reading.
The Prophet's voice to them has lived among the people
the Prophet's voice to them has lived among them
so they know how he speaks.
But now, he's not speaking, he is what?
Reciting, following words that are given to him.
Can they tell this is a clear distinction between his speech
and the words that are coming out of his mouth are clearly not his?
This is why they said,
why is he talking like this?
What is this?
Is this,
this is being dictated to him?
Where'd you get these words from?
Is this poetry?
What is that?
Is that mad?
Man, it has such an effect on me.
Is this some kind of magic or something?
Whoever,
whoever listens to this feels like they got possessed.
So maybe he's possessed too.
They came up with all these theories
because they knew this is clearly not his own speech.
There's an author by the name of Basim Sayyih,
whose also, his book has also been translated to English,
who did a thorough study of thousands and thousands of hadith
of the Prophet's voice to them,
and the speech pattern in hadith,
because everybody has a speech pattern.
If you listen to my speeches and you transcribe them,
there's going to be a lot of right, right?
Right, so there's a lot of right in my,
not enough left, a lot of right.
But that's just my speech pattern.
And the Prophet himself also has a what?
A speech pattern.
And they did an analysis of the speech pattern of all the hadith
and the speech pattern of the Quran,
and it's clearly two distinct speakers.
They're not the same speaker.
Just from a speech pattern point of view, right?
So, yatlu a'lai him a'ayati, the wording is not his,
it is extremely precise.
Also means there's no compromise in the meaning.
You know, if I'm talking to you,
I look first at how old you are,
or what your question is,
and how many people are listening,
is this being recorded or not?
Should I completely go off,
or should I just kind of keep my answer contained?
I have to read the situation before I open my mouth.
We're aware of who we're talking to.
But the Prophet, peace be upon him,
is talking to enemies that hate him,
and he's not, he cannot consider how to speak to them
because the words are not his, the words are coming from Allah,
and they may be even more offensive
to the person standing in front of them,
but it doesn't matter, he's going to say them
because they are being dictated to him.
Yatlu a'lai him a'ayati.
The Messenger, peace be upon him, is actually humble.
He's fi'l ummiyine.
He comes from a humble beginning.
And he's a slave of Allah,
and the words are the words of a king.
So there's an immediate contrast.
The speaker is at the lowest level of humility,
but the words are in the highest level of pride
because they are the words of Allah,
the owner of all pride.
He's al-Mutakabbir.
Al-Mutakabbir is a terrible quality for a person.
But al-Mutakabbir is one of the attributes of Allah
because he deserves it, he is the great one.
He speaks from the perspective of being great.
So the humility of the Messenger
is combined with the greatness of the word of Allah,
which is an amazing thing because
we have to present the word of Allah with its greatness,
but we still have to carry ourselves with humility.
The problem happens when we speak about the word of Allah with greatness
and we start thinking because of that we're kind of great also.
We're not, we're still slaves of Allah.
Then it is meant to be heard like a royal decree, actually.
It's being recited word for word from the king,
so you get this appreciation that it's coming from a higher source.
And then of course it's an open pronouncement.
This is the most encouraging thing actually in these ayat.
And that is that this is an open announcement to even the least learned.
In other words, it's al-Umiyin.
And Allah decided to give his revelations to the Ummiyin first
to open up this invitation so no one gets to say,
this is not for me.
Because it's for them, but then everybody's above that.
So it's for everyone.
The Qur'an was meant to be accessible by everyone.
You know, one of the common words for the Qur'an is
Inzal, Anzal al-Quran.
Right?
So, Inna Anzalnaahu Fi-Layda Til Qadr.
Nuzul in Arabic doesn't just mean to come down.
Inzal also means to make something accessible.
And for centuries the Bible wasn't accessible.
For most of the Israelites, the Torah wasn't accessible.
Religious teachings weren't accessible.
The teachings of Ibrahim, al-Azim, were lost to history
and they were not accessible.
The truth about the people of the cave was no longer accessible.
The stories had been changed.
Human beings didn't have access to it.
And Allah made the Qur'an by definition accessible.
Everybody can access it.
Everybody can engage with an open invitation.
It's one of the most revolutionary features of the Qur'an.
And before I leave you, I'm going to tell you my favorite part
because we need to finish this part of the discussion.
And then I'll open it up for Qay'a, inshallah.
And that is, what does ayameen?
Yatlu alayhim, ayatihi.
They translate, he reads on to them his verses or his revelations,
which is okay.
But let's dig into the word ayah a little bit.
I really want you to appreciate what the word ayah is
because it's one of the most important terms in the Qur'an.
And I'll explain what I've written here.
Ayah means the specificness of something.
So from its origin, ayatur-rajul,
I'm talking exactly about that person.
So something that's very exact can also mean ayah.
So Allah is not speaking in ambiguous terms.
Allah is speaking in very exact, precise terms.
Ta'ayyah, or ta'ayyahu, to direct a course.
Meaning ta'ayyah, actually it's coming later,
means Qasada, something that has a purpose.
Like if I head towards that door,
my body turns towards that door, I keep taking steps.
Ta'ayyah, ta'ayyah al-bab.
He headed towards the door he intended to get to the door.
The ayat aren't just interesting in bits of information.
They are leading you in a direction.
They have a purpose.
So it's driven by a purpose.
Then the word ayah comes from
kharajal qawmu bi-ayatihim.
When the Arabs used to travel in the desert,
and they would start a little fire and cook some food.
And then when they're done, they pick up their plates
and their forks and whatever they eat with the meat.
They leave the bones, they leave the burnt wood,
they leave the ashes, and they pick up all the valuable things,
and they leave.
But when somebody else comes, they just see the burnt wood
and the ashes, but they don't see anything valuable.
So they say kharajal qawmu bi-ayatihim,
the people before, they left with all the valuable things.
They left nothing of value behind.
What is an ayah?
Something of value.
Something Allah, He's reciting valuable things to them.
And by the way, Allah says there's an ayah in the mountain,
there's an ayah inside you, there's an ayah inside the sky,
there's an ayah in the bird.
What does that tell you about everything?
Everything according to this deen has what?
Everything has value.
Nothing is purposeless.
Everything has meaning.
It's not a meaningless existence.
You know?
Al-istifham, the word ayyi actually means what?
What kind?
Curiosity.
The word ayah actually embeds the meaning of something that inspires curiosity.
That you should hear the ayah and say,
I wonder what I can learn from that?
I wonder what it means?
And ayyi is actually for atta'ajj,
which is already covered in qasad.
So atta'ajj means amazement.
The Arabic used to say ayyi rajul or ayyi waladz or ayyi mar'a,
which means what a man, what a child, what a woman, ayyi kitab,
what an amazing book.
So ayyi was used as an expression of amazement.
And the ayat are supposed to bring about an amazement.
Like what an amazing thing Allah has said.
An nida wa'tanbihi li'l qareeb duna al-ba'eed.
Ayah ayyi is also used for, it's actually similar to English.
Ay man, ay, ayyu.
When you say ay, what are you actually doing?
You're calling someone close.
And ayyi was actually used, ayyi rajul was also used for ya'arajul,
meaning come here for closeness.
Meaning the ayat are also calling you.
They're also Allah calling you close to yourself.
Then it's an alama.
Alama means it's a sign for something.
And that's a very common transition, ayat or signs, right?
Now the purpose of a sign is what?
The purpose of a sign is to give you direction.
The sign says take this exit for the street,
that tells you here's the sign, here's the exit, right?
So the purpose of a sign is to guide you to a destination.
When Allah says he recites the ayat,
he gives you the signs that guide you to your destination.
And what's that destination?
Anna ila rabbika al-muntaha.
The final destination is towards your Rabb.
You're going to meet with Allah, whether you like it or not,
whether you intend to or not, you're going to meet with Allah.
If you want to meet him the right way, this is the right way.
This is the right way to meet with Allah.
And then, iya nabt wa iya uhu pusnu wa zahruhu.
This is actually really cool.
Iya in Arabic comes from the same word as ayah.
Actually means beauty and blooming.
Like when a flower blossoms, it's actually called iya ad nabt.
So the ayat are actually something beautiful.
And the more you ponder them, the more they blossom,
the more they blossom.
That's inside of the word ayah.
And iyi, I didn't mention iyi.
iyi is actually naam.
In Arabic, you have heard of the word naam before?
Naam means what?
Yeah. Okay, good.
Naam, there's another word in Arabic for yes, which is iyi.
So if somebody says, hey, did you go to this program?
iyi is the same as naam.
Naam, I'm agree. Absolutely yes.
Which means it is the yes of conviction.
The ayah will lead to conviction.
The ayah leads to absolute certainty.
Yatlua a'aihim a'atii.
And then, an mu'atadaan yakuna qaaman anything that comes from this root
is actually supposed to be something that stays.
It's permanent.
It's not a fad.
It doesn't go away.
It's not like Allah will send His ayat and they will disappear.
They are permanent decrease from Allah. That's all inside the word Aya.
Allah gave us something of meaning, something of purpose, something of wonder, something that calls us directly, something that inspires curiosity,
something that gives us conviction, something that is beautiful, something that blossoms and the messenger will recite this onto the people and it will open up their mind.
It will make them thoughtful, beautiful people.
Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi. That's the first step. And
to end this part of it,
if you were just listening to something, like if you just change radio stations or you open up a random TikTok video or whatever,
you're listening to something, does it necessarily mean that you are seriously learning?
No, it just means you're exposed.
If you overhear something, you got exposed, but that doesn't mean you're sitting there taking notes. You're just overheard.
Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi is actually not education.
He's just reading all onto, he's sitting, he's standing in a marketplace reading the ayat. Is everybody paying attention?
No.
He's speaking to the Quraysh reciting the ayat. Does everybody's like, let me listen carefully? No.
They're being exposed even though they're not paying attention or learning or whatever. Some people started listening.
Some people became interested. Some people barely heard anything. Some people hearted and got annoyed, but everybody hears it, right?
The first step that was given to the Prophet's life for them is make sure every one of these people hears it.
Just read it onto them, expose them to it. Let them react to it. Let them react to it with hate.
Let them react to it with ignorance. Let them react to it with dismissing. Let them react to it with curiosity.
That's not up to you. Your first job is what? Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi?
Ayatihi, this is the part that makes me mad.
It makes me mad because born and raised in a Muslim family and much of the Muslim world,
when I started learning about the Qur'an,
actually understanding, even at a basic level, what it says, I was 19 years old and it made me really angry.
How come I was Muslim for 19 years?
And
nobody told me what the Qur'an says.
Like, I'm Muslim. I
should know.
At least I should know what it says from the beginning to the end.
I should know what it says. Nobody did Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
Nobody read the ayahs to me. Like, I didn't know.
Then I felt like, do other people, am I the only one who like,
nobody read the ayahs? Let me ask around.
You do the one of the most sad service you can do, go to any Muslim country, any Muslim community and ask the average Muslim,
how much of the Qur'an have you?
Forget read, because reading is extra work. How much of the Qur'an was read to you?
So that you can understand it. Because if you say have you read, then you have to do the work.
But here, who's doing the work? The Prophet's doing the work and people who interrogate from the Prophet's,
they're supposed to, the ones who know should read it to the ones who don't know, isn't it?
So and if we don't know, then we become the ummiyeen.
And the ones who know have to follow the sunnah of the Prophet's, so I said, and do what? Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
So I asked, so how many of you heard the Qur'an being explained like, even at a basic level?
Like, Baqarah, I don't know, An-Imran, Resah, Ma'idah, An-Aam, A'raf maybe, Toba, An-Anfal Toba, Yunus, Mood, Yusuf, anything?
Anything? And you're like, nobody.
Nobody read the ayahs to me. Nobody talked me through the ayahs.
I didn't hear it. Isn't this something that's supposed to be heard?
Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
Right? Is this thing, they should read the Qur'an or they should hear the Qur'an?
This is about hearing, right?
And this feels to me like disappeared from the ummah.
This disappeared. You know what took its place?
The recitation of the Qur'an in beautiful voices, millions and millions and millions of listeners around the world
are listening to it. But is that Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi?
No, because you're not listening to it and saying, this is giving me direction.
You're not wondering about it. You're not being brought close.
You're not reaching conviction. It's not making you think there's a direction here.
This is a sign toward something. It's beautiful divine sounds for Barakah.
And those beautiful sounds were supposed to mean something.
That would have been Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
This is our first failure. When we say, the ummah is going in a bad direction, what do we do?
Well, the Prophet was given a formula. Here's step one, but I want step 17.
No, step one, Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
Just that, I would imagine if I can leave a contribution behind,
my contribution would be that any of you that have been listening to my work,
that I've been trying to do for the last 20 or so years,
that you become people that do this.
And even if you do it among your friends or among your siblings or just among your children,
but you become the continuation of what the Prophet started when Allah said,
Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi. Just that.
Just that. At least expose them. At least they should hear what Allah says.
At least that much. And then we take the next steps after that.
InshaAllah, ta'ala. So I'm going to end our session for today here at Yatlu aalihi ma yatihi.
And talk about the next steps tomorrow, inshaAllah.
But I'll open it up for any questions you guys might have.
Assalamu alaikum everyone. There are almost 50,000 students around the world
that are interested on top of the students we have in studying the Qur'an and its meanings
and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV, please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much. And pray that Allah gives our mission success
and we're able to share the meanings of the Qur'an and the beauty of it the world over.
