And then Allah says, has a punishment.
This is a punishment from Allah when people hear the word of Allah and they don't care
that Allah puts the love of filthy things in their hearts.
He says,
You know they ended up loving the worship of a cow?
And they were obsessed with it.
Where did that filthy love come from? It's shabq.
You're a Muslim. How could you do shabq like that?
That's the punishment of hearing the word of Allah after being shaken up
and still dismissing it.
Well, you want to dismiss it, then Allah does not reside in your heart.
We begin our study of ayah number five.
I'll translate the ayah first.
It's a difficult ayah to translate.
It might come across as offensive, but as we navigate through it,
inshallah we'll understand it better and better.
The example of those who were given the responsibility of the Torah,
who were loaded with the responsibility of the Torah.
Then they did not uphold it, meaning they didn't live up to the responsibility of the Torah.
Asfara is the example of the donkey that is carrying books,
that is carrying volumes of books.
What a terrible example it is of the group of people or the kind of nation
who lied against the revelations of Allah or the signs of Allah,
the miraculous signs of Allah.
Allah does not guide the wrongdoing nation.
That's a longer ayah, but it is an ayah about the Israelites clearly.
We're going to take it bit by bit and try to understand it and some of its biblical subtexts.
So, the first thing is the word matthal.
All you need to know about it, simply speaking, is matthal was used for a sculpture.
Like you know when you have a great leader and they build a statue,
that's supposed to look like that leader.
So, it's supposed to be a copy of the person that it's representing.
So, you see that statue, but you're actually thinking of the person that it represents.
From it came the idea of misal.
Misal is commonly translated as an example.
And the idea of an example is,
I'm talking about this concept, but it's directly taking you back to the reality of the situation.
Just like a statue is taking you back in your mind to the real person,
the example is taking you back to the concept at hand.
So, the fact that masat is being used has to have a purpose.
It always takes you back to something real.
Who's trying something?
I don't know.
It was there, it seemed to be...
They'll work on it.
They're good people. Alhamdulillah.
So, the purpose of method is to help students with the lesson at hand.
Meaning if Allah starts the ayah with the word method,
it must mean there's already an example, a concept that's there,
and this is going to help us understand why this example is being used.
Like for example, when you study any subject, if you're a student of mathematics,
and there's a concept that's being explained,
right after the concept, here are the following examples.
And then solve the following problems.
So, they'll give you a couple of examples that they've solved for you,
and then you have to figure out the rest to solve yourself.
Same way when I teach any subject, if I'm teaching Arabic for example, a grammar concept,
I'll give a couple of examples of it, then you can solve your own problems.
So, the idea of method here necessarily connects to what came before.
And that's really, really important.
The ayah right before said, you know, that Allah has favored us.
That is the favor of Allah. He gives it to whoever he wants.
And in the very next ayah, Allah is talking about the Israelites.
Why? Because the Israelites were favored by Allah already.
وَأَنْنِ فَبَّلْتُكُمْ عَلَى الْعَالَمِينَ
مَفَبَّلْلَهُمْ عَلَى الْعَلْمِينَ
وَآَتَيْنَهُمْ إِلَى الْعَيَاتِ مَا فِيهِ بَدَاءُمْ بُبِينَ
Multiple places in the Qur'an, Allah says,
I favored you over all other nations.
We favored them knowingly over other nations
and gave them all kinds of ayah in which there were great tests and great blessings.
This is what he says about the Israelites.
So, he just mentioned us getting fulbul.
And then he mentions the nation that used to have the fulbul.
As an example, why?
Because now that you're stepping up, you know, like to give you a baseball analogy,
when somebody's up to bat, it's their turn.
Right? But before you go up to bat, let me give you the example of the last guy who was in your place.
Here's the mistake they made.
The purpose of it is, you are now standing in the exact place that the Israelites were standing.
Which means, you are in potential danger of making the same mistakes that they made.
That's the point that's being made.
And this mindset really helps us appreciate why the word, you know,
the first word that's going to get used after an example is,
hummulu, the example of those who were given the burden, who were burdened or loaded with the Torah.
The Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wasallam, is told,
Inna salulki alaika kaulan saqila.
We are putting a heavy word on you.
The Quran is described as a heavy word.
What did we just learn about the Torah? They were given the burden of the Torah.
What does Allah say about the Quran? It is a heavy word put on the Prophet, sallallahu alayhi wasallam.
We ask Allah, at the end of Surat al-Baqarah, after learning about the Israelites in detail,
at the end of it, we say,
ربنا لا تحمد عدينة إسلن كما حملته على النذين من قبلنا.
Ya Allah, do not place a burden on us like you placed on those who came before us.
ربنا ولا تحملنا ما لا طاقت لنا به.
Our master do not put a burden on us that we have no power to bear.
So the word burden is now associated with the responsibility of carrying revelation.
We saw in the second ayah, يطلو عليهما ياته ويزكيهم ويعندي مهم الكتاب والحكمة.
And in the next ayah Allah described this as a fadhan.
This is a favor of Allah that you get to have the Quran.
Now there is the other side.
It's a privilege, fadhan, it's a privilege, but it's also a massive burden and massive responsibility.
And that's two sides of something.
Like for example, this takes us back also to al-Madik and Aziz,
when the king appoints someone as the advisor.
Isn't that a huge privilege?
But at the same time, a huge responsibility, right?
So the positions that have the highest privilege also come with the highest responsibility.
We respect people in high positions.
Actually we respect them because they have to carry high responsibilities.
That's what makes them respectable.
You see?
So your teacher is respected because he has higher responsibility.
The principal is more respected.
The dean of the university is even more respected because they're carrying higher and higher responsibilities.
Now we are privileged to have the Quran and we have the responsibility of the burden of carrying the Quran.
So it's important that now that you have this privilege, congratulations, that's the fadhah of Allah,
now you better watch out because this privilege will go away the moment you no longer carry your responsibility.
Like any job, you can have the most prestigious job,
but the moment you don't do justice with your job, you get humiliated.
You could have the job of the president, a really prestigious job,
and then you're corrupt in your role and you're the most humiliated person in the country
because you misuse that role.
So now that Muslims are in this position, they need to know what happened to people who were privileged before you
and they lost that privilege.
You don't want to fall into this position.
Look at these other ayat in the Quran that similarly allude to this concept.
If they turn away then the messenger is only responsible for the burden that was placed on him.
And you are only responsible for the burden that was placed on you.
When you are to follow him, you will be committed to guidance.
And the only obligation the messenger has is to communicate clearly.
Another ayat in the Quran, actually this is a scary one, but I'm going to...
You know what? Let me just tell it to you now.
We offered the trust to the skies and the earth and the mountains
and they all refused to carry the burden.
They all refused to carry the trust.
The trust is actually the choice to do right and wrong in Surat al-Ahzab.
And Allah is saying the choice to do right and wrong was...
Human beings were privileged with high intellect.
They were privileged with the soul, the Ruh that Allah blew inside them.
And as a result they have more power to make right choices than any other creature.
So when this power, this trust, that I'll let you make whatever choice you want,
when this trust was being handed to any other creation, they could not hold it.
But the human being decided to hold it.
And in the next ayat Allah says,
And it so ended up happening that Allah will end up punishing the hypocrites of the men and the women.
And the mushrikeen, men and women.
Who was mentioned first? Mushrikun or hypocrites?
Hypocrites are people who accept the responsibility, who have, who accept the religion,
and then play games with the religion.
Those are the hypocrites.
They were put on the responsibility first because they actually consciously took the responsibility.
Anyway, so that's a little bit about the notion of carrying the responsibility,
those who were given the load of carrying the Torah.
Before we go on, we should also learn some things about the word Torah.
The word Torah comes from the Hebrew language and is pronounced as Torah.
It is usually translated as law or instruction,
and is considered as the most sacred text in Judaism.
The Torah consists of the first five books of the Hebrew Bible,
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy,
and includes God's instructions, guidance, and teachings for the Jewish people.
So generally speaking, the Torah refers to the Old Testament,
the five books of the Old Testament.
In Hebrew, it is from the root YAH-RAHA, which is similar to Arabic,
Wari actually, which has the primary meaning throw or shoot.
In the derived Haif-al form, Af-A'la form, the verb means to teach,
to throw knowledge towards someone else.
So from that, the noun Torah means direction or instruction.
So actually, Torah literally means instruction or law or direction.
That's what the word comes from.
Now, let me give you an example.
This is just an example. This is not what the Qur'an says.
I just want to explain a point to you.
Those who were charged with the Qur'an then didn't uphold it.
If I say that, those who were charged with the Qur'an and didn't uphold it,
is that a comment about all of those who were charged with the Qur'an
or some of those who were charged with the Qur'an?
Huh?
If you say all, then it means none of them upheld it.
If you say those who were charged with the Qur'an and didn't uphold it,
only these people.
So when Allah says,
مثل لذين فمل التورات ثم لم يفملها,
the example of those who were charged with the Torah and didn't uphold it,
is that all the Jews are some of the Jews.
Do you understand the point?
There are those who were given the Torah that upheld it.
Allah talks about them.
There were those that were given the Torah that lived by it and died by it.
And there are heroes. They're talked about in the Qur'an too.
This example, see what happens sometimes is
people want to find, oh, the Qur'an is anti-Semitic
or the Qur'an is anti-Jewish.
Actually, it's pretty pro-Jewish.
More Jewish prophets are mentioned,
more Israelite prophets are mentioned than any other nation's prophets in the Qur'an.
Musa A.S. has mentioned over 70 times in the Qur'an.
Right?
And one of the noble prophets that even our prophet is supposed to take inspiration from.
But the most important piece here is Allah does not only criticize the Jews
and He does not only praise the Jews and He does not only...
There's no only. There's in specific cases, specific case studies are mentioned.
This is a case study of those who were charged with the Torah and didn't live up to it.
Now, let's understand what does it mean to be charged with the Torah?
It actually means those who studied it, those who learned it, the scholars among them.
And again, not all scholars among them, some scholars among them
who after having learned it did not live up to it.
They did not live up to it.
Hum Mila also is a passive verb, which I'll explain in a second.
Now, because there's a lot of work to do today on this,
I want to first get through our understanding.
How does the Qur'an explain this concept?
When He says they didn't live up to the Torah, they didn't carry it.
Well, how does He explain that they didn't carry it?
I'm going to go through a number of ayat.
This is not comprehensive, but it should give you a pretty decent idea.
What I want you to keep in your mind is the first thing I said.
Why is this example being given? For whose benefit?
Ours. So every mistake of theirs is potentially whose mistake?
It's ours. We have to have a really good look at ourselves as we read this.
First,
The worst pits of hell are for those who wrote the law with their own hands
and then said, this is from Allah.
So they can make some small, cathetic profit from it.
They toyed with the law of Allah.
So,
then terrible hell is for them because of what their hands wrote
and terrible hell is for them because of what they keep on earning.
So the first thing is to come up with laws and fatwas and rulings
and then say this is actually from Allah, but do it for corrupt reasons.
That'd be genuine.
You will see a huge population among them that make a lot of efforts
to spread animosity and sin.
They want to spread harm and animosity, hate.
And they want to eat corrupt food, meaning they want to eat from illegitimate means,
haram means, through cheating, through lying, through stealing, through robbery.
They are making terrible their behaviors have been.
And the Jews said,
Allah's hands are tied.
Allah's hands are tied.
May their hands be tied.
And they should be cursed because of what they said.
Now, what does it mean Allah's hands are tied?
Where's Allah? Allah's not doing anything.
Why is this happening to us?
Why is this, why is his hands tied?
Where was Allah when I had a car accident?
Where was Allah when I lost my job?
Where was Allah when this happened in this country and that happened in that country?
Where was, what are they trying to say?
Allah's hands are tied.
Alhamdulillah, we don't do that.
Oops.
But
He spends how he wants.
Well,
Watch this and a good number of them,
what has been sent to you from your rub makes them even more rebellious and more, more, more disbelieving.
Meaning they get offended by the word of Allah.
And we have put animosity and hatred between them for each other until judgment day.
Every time they try to start a new fire of war, Allah puts it out.
They make all kinds of efforts to create corruption in the land, in the region.
Allah does not love those who cause corruption.
They even killed prophets.
Allah says,
Every time a prophet would come to them,
a messenger would come telling them something they don't want to hear,
either they called him a liar or they got him killed.
Well, we don't have any more prophets after Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam,
but we have people that would invite people or educate people about what the prophet taught,
what the Book of Allah taught, and sometimes we don't want to hear what the Book of Allah says.
So what did we do with certain people that were saying this is what Allah says?
We would either call them liars, humiliate them, disgrace them, or even get them killed.
There were many great scholars of Islamic history that were jailed, beat, tortured, killed, humiliated,
and many of them even today, people say lots of lies against them.
I'm not afraid to say it.
I think Imam Abu Hanifa r.a is one of the most lied about people in Islamic history.
Like even people who like him lie about him, don't even know.
Like there's so much wrong done with certain people in our history and he's one of those people.
He's one of the Muslim-mean in Islamic history.
Honest to God.
And there's just, he was such a remarkable figure and then later on the worst things were associated with him.
And you know how sometimes, I'll give you an analogy, sometimes you go to some people's house,
they insult you nicely.
You know what I'm talking about?
Oh, Mashallah, you still have the same job, huh?
Hey, you still driving that Toyota?
Cool.
Yeah, I remember.
Does it still have the same scratches?
Are those people who insult you nicely?
There's a lot of people who insult the scholars of the past nicely.
May Allah reward him, Mashallah.
And then they'll still all catalyze about.
And this, this is for the Fariqah and Kebzabu and Fariqah and Yakturun.
They would kill prophets.
They would lie against prophets.
We don't, Alhamdulillah, there's no more prophets.
But the next best thing is the ambassador of the prophets.
Who are the ambassadors of the prophets?
The scholars.
So the ones who, among them, who did speak the truth, they, you, you didn't want to hear what they have to say,
because what happened with the Israelites where they were living under kingdoms
and so their religious hierarchy was associated with the government.
So if a scholar came and said something the government didn't want to hear,
then he would put the, his payroll scholars to go after the scholar that's not on the payroll and annihilate him.
If that wasn't enough, get them killed.
Get rid of them all together.
You know? Throw them in jail. Do this to that.
So this is Fariqah and Kebzabu and Fariqah and Yakturun.
Ka'nu la'yatanaahuna an munkarin fa'aloo. This is scary.
They didn't use to stop each other from bad things that they did.
They just didn't let it happen and just say,
what can I do? There's just us, who they are, is who they do.
They wouldn't even say anything bad about it.
La bisa ma ka'nu ya fa'aloo, what a terrible thing they were doing.
Meaning, not only were the bad people doing something bad,
the people that were standing and watching were also doing something terrible.
Just becoming bystanders.
Ya ayyu an ladinaa manoo la tasalua an asyaa, entubdala kum tasaukum.
Those of you who have faith, don't ask about things that if you find out about them,
they will hurt you.
Wa entasalua anhaa hayda yu-razaan mukr'aan, tubdala kum, a'fa allahu anhaa.
And if you ask about them, when the Quran is still coming down,
they will be made clear to you, Allah has forgiven certain things.
Meaning, if Allah didn't talk about something,
if Allah didn't say this is halal or this is haram, He didn't discuss the issue.
That's not because Allah didn't remember to discuss the issue.
It's because whatever He doesn't mention, He has forgiven.
That's what Allah is saying, a'fa allahu anhaa.
Allah has already forgiven it.
But what do people want to know?
Can you tell me about this? Can you tell me about this?
Can you tell me about this?
Musa A.S. told the people, slaughter a cow.
Easy, slaughter a cow.
What is it? No, a cow will cover cow.
How big, how tall, how fat, skinny, you know, it's still confusing.
And the more questions they asked, the answer became easier and more difficult.
So who created the difficulty?
Their questions created the difficulty.
Their questions created the difficulty.
And He says, Allah says,
There were people before you that used to ask a lot of questions
on creating more and more complications.
And because of it, they became disbelievers.
Because of their questions, they became disbelievers.
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know and encourage you
that I want you to sign up for bayinatv.com
and help other sign up, even sponsor students for bayinatv.com
so we can create worldwide communities of students that are studying the meanings
and the benefit and the wisdom of the Quran
and are insha'Allah, spreading that in their own circles.
Thanks so much.
Because of their questions, they became disbelievers.
So that's one, you know, it's not like you're not allowed to ask questions.
Of course, you're allowed to ask questions.
But when you're trying to split hairs, you know,
and get into nitty gritty details, details on top of details on top of details,
complicating things more than they need to be complicated, you know,
then you're just creating, you're making the religion so difficult
that you can't even practice it.
It will become impossible.
Okay.
So now another disease that they used to have.
You were the people from Mahantum Ha'udah,
Takhtulun Anfusakum Wa Toqriyuna Fariqa Minkum Min Diyaarihim.
You were the same people who used to kill each other.
They were Muslims, killing other Muslims.
But then, and then you were killing, you were expelling them,
your own people from your own homes,
and you were taking over each other's properties,
T'allah Aruna Aalaihim Bilal I.
You were making aggressive moves against each other,
invading each other's properties, taking each other's land and things like that.
But then after you fought each other,
by the way, when the Muslims fought each other, they became weak.
If a family is having fights within itself, the family is weak,
which means it's easier to attack from the outside.
So when the Israelites fought each other, other nations saw that they're weak.
So they started invading them.
When they invaded them, many of them became slaves.
Then they would have fundraisers, our Muslim brothers are being tortured.
Please, raise some money so we can free our Muslim brothers.
Wa In Ya'atukum Musaara Tufaduhum
When they come to you as slaves, you go and pay money to rescue them.
You want to raise money for that cause.
Wa Wa Mu'harramun Aalaikum Ikhrajuhum
Kicking them out of their homes in the first place was haram for you.
You created a conflict that led them to become this way,
and then you want to come and rescue them. This is what Tufrah says.
The first was the infighting, and then there was a whole help your fellow brother.
This hypocrisy was created within them.
Okay, then,
Ifa Tugliluna Bi Ba'ud Lil Kitabi Wa Takt Furuna Bi Ba'ud
Do you believe in some parts of the book and just completely reject other parts of the book?
Fa Maa Jazaa'u Ma Ya'f'alu Dhalika
Inlaa Khizyul Fi Al Hayatul Dunyaa
What could be the payback for someone who does something like that,
except they should be humiliated in this light?
They should live in humiliation.
Wa Yaumal Qiyamati Yuradunaylaa Shadil Adab
In the Day of Resurrection, they will be taken back to the worst of punishments.
Oh, this one's scary. Wa Qaalul Qulubuna Wulf
They said, our hearts are wrapped up.
Our hearts are safe, no matter what.
As bad as I am, I still have iman in my heart.
It doesn't matter how... Okay, ya, this is haram, this is haram, this is haram.
I do a lot of haram, but I'm a good person.
In my heart, I'm still a good person.
You should know that. Don't judge my heart.
My heart is still good.
O' Allah says,
Allaahubu'Allah bi Kufrihim
Allah crush them because they're denial.
Fa Qalilam Ma Ya'yut Bilun. How little they have faith.
This way of saying, ya, ya, ya, I'd shut.
You're right, I do a lot of bad things, but I'm not that bad because deep down inside...
Deep down, really deep down.
Wa Lammaa Jaaahum Kitabubin A'indil Nahi Musaddikul Dima Maaahum
And when they would make predictions of the future,
that when the final prophet comes, you will see,
Oh, it's gonna be awesome. We're gonna win.
Ah, that sounds familiar.
When the signs of judgment take come, then the Muslims are gonna...
Right now though, my heart's in a good place.
Wa Qalilam Min Kumli Astaftihaun A'adil Adha Bina Qafal. Okay.
Allah says to them, Listen.
He holds the mountain above them.
He scares them and says,
Hold on to what I'm giving you with might.
Wa Saba'u, Listen.
Qa'udu Sama'ana Wa As-Sina.
They say, We heard and we disobeyed.
You know what this is? Let me tell you.
Sometimes Allah scares people.
He puts them in a very scary situation.
And in that scary situation, they realize they must obey Allah.
And soon after that scary situation,
when the scary situation is gone, what happens to those people?
They're gonna...
Allah's not mad anymore.
I think I can go back to normal now.
Like Allah gives the analogy of even non-believers,
you know, when they're traveling by sea and the sea becomes turbulent,
they all start remembering Allah.
Right? If you're on a plane and the medical mouth mask falls.
Right?
Oops, sorry.
The pilot fell asleep.
You can put the medical mouth mask back up.
Okay, well, I'll go back to Netflix then.
Right?
So there's a...
And the idea here is actually even more than that.
They were shaken up and they were told,
listen to what we are giving you seriously.
And hold on to it.
And they said, we hear, but later on, even though they heard it,
they still disobeyed.
And then Allah says, has a punishment.
This is a punishment from Allah when people hear the word of Allah
and they don't care that Allah puts the love of filthy things in their hearts.
He says,
You know, they ended up loving the worship of a cow.
And they were obsessed with it.
Where did that filthy love come from?
It's shirk.
You're a Muslim.
How could you just do shirk like that?
That's the punishment of hearing the word of Allah after being shaken up
and still dismissing it.
Well, you want to dismiss it, then Allah does not reside in your heart.
Then you...
He'll allow that heart to be flooded with all kinds of shirk
and creepy weird practices.
And you'll find, I don't have to spell this out to you,
but there's no shortage of weird shirk-y,
total idol worship type practices across the Muslim world.
Total idol worship type, like crazy, and they call themselves Muslim.
And they do the most like non-Muslim things.
Openly.
I was told that I promised to stop my worship
but most of them made a promise breaking.
Every time they made any promise, they threw it away.
They couldn't keep any promises.
I learned this the hard way in Pakistan.
I thought things would get better.
You know what I learned about Islam?
When somebody says, don't worry about it at all.
Done.
Take care.
That's when you should worry.
When the guy says,
I'm thinking about it, I don't know.
Oh my God.
The more guarantees, the more guarantees,
the more lies.
Why?
Why?
Allah says every time they made any promise,
they threw it behind their back.
I was speaking to a senior in Pakistan intellectual,
became a friend of mine.
I love making friends with elders.
They're just so wise.
He said, you know what our problem is in our country?
We're just in the habit of lying about the smallest things.
We just have to lie.
We don't even have, there's no reason.
We still do it.
We still do it.
You're like, your friend is waiting for you at the door, right?
And he calls you and says, you coming?
You could say, I need five minutes.
You say, no, no, I'm already down the stairs.
I'm right there, bro.
I'm right there.
Just 10 seconds, 10 minutes later.
Right?
There was no reason to lie, but you still have to do it.
You know?
Hey, have you finished the Saim-e-Dalagi-Bu?
Alhamdulillah.
You guys are unrelated, Alhamdulillah.
I wasn't related to what you said.
I was just saying praise the Lord to Allah.
Then here's the other scary one.
You will find them the most desiring of living.
They just want to live.
They just don't want to die.
Even more than the people who do shirk.
Each one of them wants to live a thousand years.
You know how this is a new one.
I didn't think this would happen to us, but a lot of people
Muslims come up to me, young and old.
I have a real fear of dying.
I just don't want to die.
Why do you lucky death?
I have nightmares about dying.
Why are you afraid of dying?
We came from Allah.
We return back to Allah.
This is an episode of our life.
This is not the end of our life.
I met a doctor who told me he deals with patients that are on the verge of death.
You know?
And sometimes he has to tell the family he only has a month left.
He has two weeks left.
If you'd like to take him off the machine and take them home or whatever,
take them off dialysis, etc., then it's your choice.
And he says, man, I deal with atheist families, Jewish families, Christian families, Hindu families,
all kinds of Muslim families.
And the only families to say, no, no, no, he cannot die.
He cannot die.
Keep him on the machine.
I know his brain is not working anymore.
But no, no, no, that cannot be.
We cannot have him die.
The only families that do that are the Muslim families.
Everybody else says he had a good life.
The atheist says I had a good life.
Let me go in peace.
They have no problem.
The Hindu says, okay, I'll come back.
Karma, I'll come back.
Patelliteb, whatever, I'll come back.
The only people now that cannot accept the notion of death, how could this happen?
How could death happen?
No, no, no, they're still alive.
They can't go.
They can't go.
And they can't accept it over and over again.
You know what Allah did with us?
We don't hand the body over to a cremation company so they can deal with it.
Or to a company that embalms the body or who washes the body?
The family members.
Who puts the coffin on the body?
The family members.
Traditionally, who put the body in the grave?
The family, why?
Because Allah's, this religion teaches you to deal with death, not run from it to deal with it.
These realites developed a terrible fear of death.
Terrible fear of death.
It's reminding me of a hadith of the Prophet Salli Shalim when he said that people are going to eat from us like wolves, tear up a sheep.
And he said, what's the, when he was asked, Malmalja, how are we going to get out of this?
He said, remember death a lot, right?
And that's some people look at that and say, why shouldn't I remember death a lot?
It's depressing.
The point of that hadith is people will become so obsessed with what?
Life that they don't want to accept the reality of death.
It's not that you should wake up and say, I'm going to die.
Breakfast, I'm going to die.
You're going to have lunch, I'm going to die.
That's not what's being said.
It's just that you're so engulfed in life that you're denying the reality of death.
You're denying that this life is a journey.
And this was something that they before us, you know,
they're not going to be getting away from punishment if they no longer how much, how long they live.
Here's another one that they did.
They had this problem. Alhamdulillah.
We don't have this problem anywhere in the Muslim world.
You're alimuna nasa siha.
They used to teach people, the angels were sent to teach them magic.
And they were told when you learn magic,
if you learn this, you'll become kafir.
And they would learn things that would cause them harm.
You mayu farraqoola bihi bayin al-lalhi was a uji.
They would especially learn magic that would cause marriages to break up or a proposal to not go through.
Or this girl should never get married.
Or that guy should become sick before his engagement happens.
Or this is what they, this is where a lot of the magic industry went with them.
Alhamdulillah, we don't do that.
We're good.
Wa-lāhum bi-dhāri nabihī min-ahadil l-lābīdilā.
You couldn't be harming anybody with this kind of stuff except by Allah's permission.
Wa-yate'allam ulamayyaduruhum alayyamfa'uhum.
And they would only learn something that would harm them and not benefit them.
Wa-lābīt samāsharul bihi anfusahum.
Wa-lāqad alimu lamanishtara'um ala'u fil-ākhirati min-khadā'a.
And they knew whoever uses any of this or tries to do any of this
will have no portion in the akhira.
What a horrible thing they sold themselves for.
If they only knew, lo kan li'alam.
Min-adadīnahadu yuharrifūn al-kalīmā amma wādi'i.
Among the Israelites, the Jews, there are some who remove the word from its place.
Allah says one thing, they say, no, that's not what it means, this is what it means.
That's not what it says, this is what it says.
Messing with the words.
Now with the Qur'an, we can't change the word of Allah, right?
Here's a creative exercise.
Okay, we can't change the words.
Let's just tell people, I know this is what it says,
but it says X, but what it really means is Y.
I know it says X, I know, I know.
I know Allah is the best speaker, and he's very clear in his speech.
But what this really means is something else.
Or, oh, this is what the ayah is, but no, no, no, this ayah, we don't know how to follow this ayah.
We have to follow this ayah.
What?
Yuharrifūn al-kalīmā amma wādi'i.
Yakūluna sama'ina wa'a'asayna.
And they say, we hear and we disobey.
Wasma'a ghayla wa'sma'in.
And we hear in a way that shouldn't be heard.
Wa ra'ina layyam bi'a'asinati.
Meaning they twist their tongue and make insults.
Ta'anan fiddīn.
They are sarcastic in the matter of religion.
Wa qalū an'ahu wa la'u an'ahu.
Wa la'u an'ahu wa'sma'u an'ahu.
Wa'sma'u an'ahu wa'sma'u an'ahu.
And if they had only heard and obeyed, wa'sma'u an'ahu wa'sma'u an'ahu.
And had listened and said, wait for us.
La qāna khayran la'u an'ahu wa'a'ahu.
There would have been better for them.
They, okay, here's the next one.
Again, something, al-ḥamdu liLlāh, we are immune.
They, he says, and you know, he says,
ma yawaddu lladheena kafurumil an'al kitā'u wa l-al-mushinkīn
an'u nazzala aalaykum min khayri'ma rabbikum.
They never want that something good should come to you.
They hate that something good should come to you.
Wa la'u yashtasubi r-rahmati himayyasha.
And the knowledgeable among them hate that you now have revelation.
Meaning they feel like if you have knowledge of revelation,
then people are not going to come to us.
They're not going to be impressed with our knowledge now
because you have that knowledge.
So they don't want that for you.
Muslims within each other, you know, even in the Islamic space.
Even in the Islamic space.
You know, sometimes you can learn something good
from someone who knows a lot less than you.
Is that possible? Right?
But you notice that sometimes there's somebody who knows a lot more
and someone who knows a lot less.
But the one who knows a lot less is a lot more popular.
Yeah?
And the one who knows a lot more gets really upset.
But the guy who knows a lot less is more popular.
And maybe he says some wrong things, whatever he says.
But does he say something good also?
Yeah, he said me, this is something good.
Now, when you can do two things, you could say,
Hey, mashā'Allah, you're popular, you're reaching a lot of people.
Here are some mistakes you're making. Let me help you with them privately.
Because you care about this person and the good that they do.
But is that what we do?
Let me now, because I'm less popular, let me now announce to the world
how wrong this person is and highlight all of the wrong that they do.
And then tell people, yeah, there's some good things, mashā'Allah.
But you know what?
Those good things don't count for anything because look at all these wrongs.
Look at all these mistakes.
They cannot stand that something good might come from someone else.
You can't.
What is, you know, our religion has very simple principles.
If I have a problem with someone, what should I do?
Talk about them or talk to them?
Talk to them.
Our religion has very simple principles.
Hide the faults of your brother and sister or broadcast the faults of your brother and sister.
What is it?
Whoever covers a believer, Allah covers them on judgment day.
A lot of our Islamic content now is dedicated to one person destroying another person.
Yes or no?
My question is, that person who wanted to destroy that other person,
couldn't email them, couldn't find their phone number, couldn't go to their masjid,
couldn't go to their, didn't have a conversation with them, couldn't sit and talk, they couldn't do that.
They had to go to the world first and say what a kafir they are first.
That was step one.
This is what I don't understand.
There's one thing that you, you know, at least you talk to the person.
You talk to them, you have a conversation with them.
You know?
And even on top of that, my own theory, you don't have to agree with this.
Human beings will always disagree with each other.
And no human being will ever be perfect.
You could spend your energy describing how wrong someone else is,
or you could spend your energy showing, doing something right.
You could, you decide where you want to put your energy.
You know?
Some people, some people's entire religion just becomes correcting someone else,
knocking somebody else down.
Right?
And if somebody else is actually doing something really terrible,
or it's a very wrong idea that they're spreading, you know what?
Ideas should be attacked.
The Quran teaches us to attack ideas, instead of attacking what?
People.
We become obsessed with attacking people, instead of ideas.
Now the thing is, when you attack a person, that person is made up of good ideas and bad ideas.
When you attack that person, you have refuted everything.
But if you attack ideas, then you are making everyone move up.
You're helping each other.
But this, this is not what they did.
They don't like that good would come to somebody else.
There's one last one.
Adhan has also been given.
They started believing nobody will enter Jannah except us.
These are the wishful thoughts.
How to burhanakum?
Bring your proof.
I'll say bring your proof.
Is there any ayah in the Quran that says nobody will enter Jannah except you people?
That Allah give us a guarantee that you and I are going to enter Jannah.
No.
He says,
koo an fusakum ba'aadikum nara.
Save yourselves and your families from the fire.
He says,
ya ayu an nadina amanu koo an fusakum ba'aadikum nara.
He didn't say,
ya ayu an nadina katharu koo an fusakum ba'aadikum nara.
He said,
those of you who believe, save yourselves and your families from the fire.
Wait.
No, no, no.
Bur believers.
We're already safe.
This should be said to those who don't believe.
The rest of you, save yourselves from the fire, because we are already on the safe side.
No, he says, those of you who believe, save yourselves and your families from the fire.
What does that tell you?
Believers don't have a false sense of security.
And because they don't have that, they're not, they don't have any mental energy to decide who is and isn't going to help.
They don't have energy for that, because they've got to worry about themselves.
They've got to worry about them.
How many people come to me and say, what's going to happen to Mother Teresa?
Is that your concern on Judgment Day, bro?
Like honestly, when we rise and you see the sun and the moon colliding with each other and the oceans boiling, you're like, where's Mother Teresa?
Well, are you honestly going to be the day on which a mother will drop her baby?
The day on which a person will run from their own family.
You're like, but I have a good coworker.
I'm just wondering if they're going to go to hell or not.
Why is this even your concern?
Do you not believe in Allah the just?
Do you not believe in Allah the knower of all things?
Do you not believe in Allah who understands the inside and the outside?
Why do you have to have an answer?
And if I say, if I help you out and say, you know what, your coworker, nice guy, yeah, Allah will put him in jannah.
You are not sure.
We're not even sure about ourselves, are we?
Then why do you want guarantees for someone else?
Where did this mentality come from?
It came from we're already saved.
I want other people to join the saved group.
This is self-righteousness.
Don't declare yourselves pure.
Don't declare yourself saved.
He knows better who has taqwa.
They developed this mentality.
And unfortunately, and we didn't even say, well, Muslims are saved.
We don't say that.
We say my version of Muslims are saved.
My people, my mentor, my sheikh, my whoever, and the people that wear the same uniform as me, wear the saved ones.
Everybody else, you know, they're just barbecued.
These, this is what, why do I go through all of these ayat?
Allah said what?
Those who were given the burden of the Torah and they didn't carry it.
They took the religion and made it into something else.
This is not what Allah gave.
They turned it into a different religion altogether.
And Allah says, this is this.
I'm giving you this example because now you have been privileged.
Don't make these mistakes.
And if we have been making these mistakes, enough of us, not all of us,
but enough of us have been making these mistakes,
now it's time we put a stop to it.
Now it's time we, you know, we have to study the Israelites
as we are studying ourselves, actually.
You know what, in medical school they do, right?
They study the cadaver, the dead body,
because they're actually studying the future patient.
We're studying the Israelites, not to study the Israelites.
We're studying them to study ourselves.
The Lord, that's what we're honest, but Allah's guidance for us.
Not fun facts from history.
So as I leave you, one of the, this is not where it gets things really cool.
I'll tell you at the end of after the prayer,
but one of the things I will share with you,
the example given was of a donkey that carries a burden.
Check this out.
One of the sages of the school of Eliyahu taught,
this is Jewish literature, the rabbinical literature.
This is the Babylonian Talmud.
A person should always make himself subjugated to matters of the Torah,
like an ox to a yoke, and like a donkey to a burden.
So the Torah actually said you should be committed to the book,
like a donkey is committed to the burden on it.
So they use this analogy to say,
this demonstrates how committed you should be to the book of Allah.
Allah took that image and reversed it and said,
yes, the analogy is true, but you actually became someone
who has no idea what it's carrying, like a donkey carrying a bunch of books.
The analogy is actually not originally Oran,
the analogy is actually taken from rabbinical literature
and being re-engineered to make this point.
So how Allah, okay, and then we'll discuss more of this after the Salat.
Barakallahu wa Alaykum, As-salamu alaykum wa rehmatullah.
Here's what's coming up in the next episode
and this deeper look of Surat al-Jumu'ah.
So the donkey that was trying to get rid of its burden ended up carrying even more.
Which is an interesting analogy because the Israelites,
they tried to play with the word of Allah
and the more they tried to play with it, life became more and more difficult for them.
The more complications came in their life.
Obeying the word of Allah makes life easy.
Disobeying the word of Allah makes life difficult.
That is the Quran's formula that's always been there since the beginning.
