But what do we do? We say, we use Islam to say, oh, parents have all the rights.
And children have? None of the rights. By the way, the only relationship where one has all the rights
and the other has no rights is Allah and the slave. Because Allah has all the rights and we are just
slaves of Allah. We don't have any rights against Allah. Everything Allah gives us is a favor from Him.
But then the Quran teaches you and teaches me how is that an ayah? How is the wind an ayah?
How is the sun an ayah? Without it, I could learn a lot about the sun in science class,
but I won't learn that it is what? It's an ayah. The Quran came and changed the world around me
and I started seeing ayat everywhere. And the more ayat I see in the world, it takes me back to what
he teaches me about those ayat. And the more I read the Quran, it makes me go back into the universe
and explore those ayat. So those ayat pulled me back towards these ayat and these ayat pushed me
back towards those ayat and they keep going between the ayat. So when the Prophet ﷺ is
reciting the ayat to them, he's changing their worldview. People now recognize that ayat are
all around them. So it's a very powerful phrase that's used as the opening statement of these four
steps. Now we're going to talk about the second step. We'll use that key here. Let me purify this.
The word Zaki comes from the letters Zakaaf and Waal. And it actually means either means an even
number, so a balance of numbers or two odd numbers together. When a land has no bugs and you can grow
really good plants on it, it's healthy soil, it's called Ardun Zakiya or Sabina, meaning it grows
really good fruits. Growth itself, like a child growing, is also called Zakaaf. So you know like
in Surat Al-Kahaf you have, did you kill a boy? Zakiya could mean pure, but it also means a growing
boy. Like he's not grown yet. He's still on his process of growing. So he's innocent, he's pure,
but he's also growing. So as Zakaaf, what we use in our Suriyah, like you have to pay Zakaaf every
year, right? So the Zakaaf means it purifies your money, but it actually also means it grows your money.
Right? Because when you give it, it puts more baraka in the rest of your money and that grows,
right? So and of course you're growing because whatever you spent, you've actually given to
your own self for the Akhira account. You just transfer from Dhuniya account to Akhira account.
So it's growth all around. Zakaaf is used as a verb, the verb Tasqiyah was used in Arabic
for two things. To fix something, like if you fixed your car, then you did Tasqiyah of your car
and also means to clean up something, to purify something. And oftentimes fixing something actually
requires the first step of it is what? Cleaning up. Like for example, if doctors are trying to fix
a cut or an injury, what's the first thing they do? They disinfect, right? They clean up all the mess
and then they fix. If somebody's trying to fix a beat up old car that's rusty, what's the first step?
They're going to clean up all the rust, get rid of that, then begin the fixing process, right?
So the same way Zakaaf actually means to fix, where the first step is actually cleansing or
purifying. Okay, now we get to the heart of the matter. The second step that is being described
is that he purifies them. He purifies them. And usually what we think of somebody being purified,
we think in the spiritual sense. But I want you to take the full picture. What does it mean
that the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam, and the Qur'an is purifying them, right? The
messengers purifying these people. Firstly, yes, it is spiritually purifying them, meaning they
believed in multiple gods. They didn't realize the damage their sins do to their souls, their hearts.
They didn't realize that. So there is a spiritual cleansing. There's a spiritual purification
that's happening. By the way, when we see Tezquia or purification, you should also think of
nurturing and cleansing, because those meanings are growth, nurturing, and cleansing, all of them.
So you know what that means? People are being spiritually developed. They're not just becoming
pure overnight. They're being nurtured and developed, right? You're not there yet. You're
going to get there. Like for example, in some people, they have a really bad diet, and they
want to fix themselves. They want to get healthier. Then they go to a nutritionist or they go to a
fitness coach or something, and he says, okay, we're going to do a detox, or we're going to do
this program. And you're going to go on a keto diet, or you're going to go to this other kind of
adab diet or whatever they come up with, right? So what are they doing? Do you get cleansed overnight?
No. And is it sometimes you're in the process of cleansing and you're like, I see a donut. I
don't know what to do. And then you go back and you dirty yourself again. So you make progress,
then you fall, and you make progress, and you fall, you make progress, and you fall. Overall,
you should be making progress, but it's not like every day is progress. Sometimes there's dips,
right? Some days are not as good as other days. But overall, you're developing. And actually,
falling is also a lesson. And then you learn from that lesson, and you develop again, and you keep
taking more and more steps towards furthering. So that's spiritual development. And that's
actually something that many in the Islamic tradition, we've talked a lot about purification of
the heart, right? And the cleansing of the heart. And Allah talks about that in the Qur'an quite a
bit. I have my own unorthodox view on spiritual purification. So I'll share that with you,
because I'm only here for a few days, and then you have to deal with the consequences yourself.
I do believe that what Allah revealed to us is right to the point. Like Allah does not speak in
circles. And Allah does not speak in abstract philosophy. Allah speaks directly. You know,
the shortest distance between two things is a straight line. When there's a problem, Allah
addresses the problem directly, right? So for example, Allah says, well, okay, how do you get,
people say, how do you get Taqwa of Allah? How do I get, Allah says, okay, start fasting and in
month of Ramadan. And what's, what's it going to give you? How's fasting going to give me Taqwa? Well,
you're going to learn to stay away from things that are even halal. And it's going to teach you
how to stop yourself. And Taqwa in the end is what? Stop yourself. So 30 days of stopping yourself
might help you build a little bit of an ability to stop yourself from doing stupid things, from
doing haram things. If you can even stop yourself from halal things, then maybe that's a pretty good
training for you to even stop from haram things, right? So that's, it's a, it's a step and it's
not guaranteed. La'allakum means hopefully you'll get some taqwa out of it. The hope is you'll get
taqwa out of it. Okay, well, how do I, how do I know if I have taqwa? He says,
be mindful of Allah and say things in a straightforward way. Just say, say exactly
what you mean. What happens sometimes when you need to talk to somebody? Do you say exactly what you
mean or do you calculate in your head if I say this, what's going to happen? Oh my God, I even hate
me so much. I can't tell him. I can't tell him. No, I need to be strategic about this. We have so
much fear of people that it overrides the fear of who? Riven, Allah says, if you have taqwa of me,
speak straightforward. It doesn't matter who you offend. It doesn't matter if you ended up siding
with the enemy because you're saying the right thing. It doesn't matter if you were going against
the loved one because you're siding with the right thing. Just say, if you're really fearful of me,
just say the right thing and then I will fix whatever situation there is. You'll sliha'lakum
Ma'amadakum. In other words, Allah does not give us some, oh, you must first climb on this mountain
and you must sit under a tree and until you feel the breeze, you will not know the truth of taqwa.
There's no, you know, like when people go to the sensei to learn kung fu and he says,
just go up and down the mountain 20 times and learn this breathing technique before I even begin to
teach you or wax on, wax off before you can, yeah. There's no complicated stuff. It's straightforward.
Taqwa is easy. You want to clean your heart? Easy. Don't do ri'ba. That complicated? Don't talk about
people. Don't slander people. Don't make fun of each other, right? Give people's money back.
Don't give people's money. If you owe people money, find nazaliqa min taqwa al-kulub.
But you know what? What sometimes happens, I don't know, blame the entire genre, but sometimes what happens is
the thing that you should do that's right in your face that the Qur'an is saying,
do this and you will be spiritually cleansed, that's too much work.
So I'm going to come up with some zikr that makes me feel so spiritually connected.
And when I read, when I listen to this nashid, oh my god, I feel like so close to Allah, I know what
to hide. And you come up with all these exotic ways of purifying your heart. And the thing that
he's saying, do this and you will be good of heart. Nah. No, no, no, I need something more exotic.
I need something more like exceptional, something so special that this mentor of mine,
who knows the secrets of the universe, apparently, he's going to tell me those secrets. Then I will
know how to cleanse my heart. This stuff, I believe, is what used to be the case before the coming of
the Qur'an. This thing that some people carry the secrets to cleanse your heart and nobody else knows
them. This was the mentality before Islam. This is what people that used to manipulate people in
the name of religion used to do. Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture.
Just before you continue, I want to let you know and encourage you that I want you to sign up for
bayinatv.com and help other sign up or even sponsor students for bayinatv.com so we can create worldwide
communities of students that are studying the meanings and the benefit and the wisdom of the Qur'an
and are insha'Allah, spreading that in their own circles. Thanks so much. And the Qur'an came to
get rid of all of this. But human beings have their own human tendencies. So what did they do over time?
They went back to the same tendencies again. And I don't dismiss the entire genre. And I actually
appreciate quite a bit across a variety of genres in Islamic studies, including Sufi literature.
However, did we develop extremes? Yeah. And are some of them extremely against the spirit of the
Qur'an? Absolutely. Absolutely. And if you just read, if you go back to Stepan, yatlu alayhim a'yati,
you'd be like, I need to distance myself from this, this version of spirituality that's actually
against the Qur'an's spirituality. It's not just cleansing me spiritually. It's cleansing my concept
of spirituality. It's actually purifying my, what does it mean to be a good person? You know, a young
lady asked the other day, I feel so bad that I don't fast on Mondays and Thursdays. Did Allah in
his entire Qur'an ask you to feel bad if you don't fast on Mondays and Thursdays? Didn't he free you
from that burden? There are some things you should feel bad about. And I'm pretty sure Allah, the
knower of the unseen and the seen who guided humanity until the end of time, with his most
perfect speech, would tell you, here are the things you should actually feel bad about.
Right? So didn't he liberate me from all the other guilt that I don't have to carry?
It's actually spiritually liberating. Then there's intellectual purification. Qur'an keeps saying
This isn't just a spiritual religion. It's an intellectual religion. Ibrahim
alaihi salam isn't just questioning his people spiritually. He's questioning them intellectually.
Saying, so why do you follow this? Why should I believe in this? What is the reason behind this?
There's this Qur'an keeps saying go ask questions, explore, go see the earth, travel,
ask those who ask the people who know if you don't know. Learn, inquire. What religion tells you to
leave the monastery and go explore? People, religions usually told you don't go out there,
you will lose your faith. Don't think for yourself, thinking from the devil. I've actually met some
folks that I talked to about God a little bit. I was like, yeah, that makes a lot of sense. But you
know, my pastor told me that if it makes too much sense, it's the devil trying to trick you.
As not just some denominations of Christianity that developed that many Muslims don't listen
because it's going to seem like it makes a lot of sense. That's how shaitan gets you by using your
brain. Stop thinking and you will be safe. Allah created the best of creation, the human being,
and the best of his muscles is in here. And you use this to come to Islam. And after you come to
Islam, you tell people, stop using this thing because now you're Muslim. Now you can be stupid.
The book came to cleanse us intellectually, to make us people of thought and exploration and learning.
You know, and this is an intellectual cleansing that's part of, and you know, what should I believe
about Allah? Why should I believe that about Allah? What should I believe about the Prophet's
life? You know, why should I believe that? What should I believe about my relationship with him?
These are intellectual purifications. And then there's a physical purification. Like what? Give me an
example of physical purification in this religion. And actually even what we eat, what we put inside
our body has to be good and pure, isn't it? So the body on the external needs to be pure and also
physically, internally also needs to be pure. And the physical relationships we have with other
human beings, the spouses, has to be pure. All of it has to be pure. So it's not just spiritually
intellectually cleansing, it's actually physically cleansing. And our physical cleanliness is tied
to our intellectual and our spiritual cleanliness. And one of my favorites is the Qur'an's emotional
purification. I loved, I alluded to it before, but I'll tell you some more about it. In Arab culture,
for example, if a husband and wife had an argument with each other and the husband got really mad at
his wife, it would say, I hate you so much from today on, when I think of you. It's like I think
of my own mother. From today, you are my mother. And she'd be like, this is called the Har. This
was a practice called the Har. The Arabs used to do this. And that means forever again, I will never
be with this woman again. I will never think about her romantically again. I will never be in a
relationship with her again, because she is now equal to who? My mother. So it's disgusting now for
me. Allah says in the Qur'an,
All those people who do this with their women, they're not their moms.
Done. I can't believe he said I'm his mom. Allah said, no, they're not. You're not his mom.
You can say whatever you want. Some people are really into drama, right? They say dramatic things.
I mean, I come from South Asia. We're really into drama.
Right? Some moms will say to their son, from today, you are not my son.
I'm still your son.
There. Can't change that.
Fathers can say, if you do this again, you are no longer my son. Actually, I am.
Okay, the genetics are still. Yeah, I look like you dad. Look at me.
No, no, you can't change that. You can't emotionally blackmail people.
You can't use emotions to control people. Allah even said, you know, and if you I mentioned this
before, emotionally, people, you know, relationships are supposed to be healthy,
which means I have some rights and my wife has some rights. I have some rights. My parents have
some rights. I have some rights. My siblings have some rights. I have responsibilities. They also
have what? Responsibilities. It's a give and take as a balance between both. But what do we do?
We say we use Islam to say, Oh, parents have all the rights.
And children have none of the rights. By the way, the only relationship where one has all the rights
and the other has no rights is Allah and the slave, because Allah has all the rights and we are just
slaves of Allah. We don't have any rights against Allah. Everything Allah gives us is a favor from
him. Every other relationship has what? Rights and responsibilities. You think of a mother
who doesn't feed her child and throws him out in the trash and goes to jail because of it. She says,
But in Islam, I have all the rights and that baby I threw in the trash should still treat me with
Ahsan when he grows up one day after he comes out of foster care.
You think she has that right? You think this is what Islam teaches? No. No, there's you have to
do your part. Even in the dua you make for your parents, for example, you say, My master, show them
both rahma, but you don't stop there. What do you say? Come on, the way they raised me when I was,
the way they nurtured me when I was small. But if they were beating you up when you were small,
if they were abusing you when you were small, if they were abandoning you when you were small,
if they were drinking alcohol and fighting each other and scarring you psychologically in front
of you when you were small, is that rabbiyaani? You know what that is? That's emotional cleansing.
Why? Because now the only emotionally you only carry the burdens Allah made you carry.
And you don't have to carry any burdens and any guilt that Allah did not make you carry.
There are some things emotionally also in our families and in our cultures. There are some
things that are wrong, but they're not wrong in Islam. You know that, right? There are some things
that are culturally very wrong, but they're not wrong in Islam. And when you do something that's
Allah has no problem with it. Completely halal. Allah has no problem with it. And you're doing the
right thing. And everyone in your family says, this is wrong. We hate you. We can't believe you
did this. You're such a shame. Allah will ask you, well, Allah is actually not having a problem at all.
You're having a problem. Allah has no problem. I'm well within my rights. I didn't violate
anybody's rights. I stayed within Allah's shade of halal. You know what Allah does? He removes
that emotional baggage. He cleanses my emotions. I don't have to carry those emotions with me.
I don't have to carry that guilt with me. If I owe real guilt, I owe it to someone who I actually
wronged according to the Book of Allah. If I actually wronged my parents, I owe that. If I
actually wrong some fine, I owe an apology. And the other incredible emotional cleansing that Allah
did is, how many times do you have to make daubat to Allah before Allah accepts the daubat? Tell me.
Sincere daubat, how many times? And then you have to believe that Allah has what?
Forgiven. You have to believe that. We learned that in the Qur'an. Of course,
you should keep making daubat because we make many sins. But if you sincerely, like for example,
you stole when you were a teenager, you were stupid and you ran away with somebody else's
McDonald's fries. You feel really guilty. Now, your next Ramadan, you decided to make daubat for
those fries. You were like, I remember I ate 18 fries. So I'm going to make 18 days of Ramadan,
18 different daubas. No, no, no. You could put the whole packet together and just make one daubat.
Sincerely. You can move on now. You don't have to live inside that guilt. You understand? You can
move on. Musa alayhi salam killed somebody and he made istighfar to Allah. But did he keep on
making istighfar to Allah? He made istighfar to Allah. That's it. Now he's doing good things. He's
moved on because he's hoping that Allah will now forgive. That's it. What do we do? Human beings.
Allah says, ask me sincerely once, inna illa haqfirudh lulu ba jami'a. What do human beings do?
Sorry I did that. That's not good enough for me. You know, you're not really sorry, right? Yes,
I am. I am sorry. I said I'm sorry. Did you though? And then the next time you're in a bad mood,
you remember what you did, right? But I said sorry for that. Yeah, you said sorry. You think that's
enough? But I didn't just say sorry. I asked you what can I do to make it up to you? And you said
this, this, and this, and I did this, this, and this, and you're bringing it up again? Yeah, well,
I can't let it go. Because I don't think you've paid enough of a price. I don't think Allah will
forgive you because I'm not happy. Oh, this is the last one I'm going to share with you on emotional
cleansing that Allah gave us in this book. You know, some people say until I forgive you,
I can guarantee you Allah will not forgive you. I love that one. I love that one. So until I
forgive you, what's going to happen? Allah will not forgive you. Ah, I see. So that means on
judgment day, doesn't matter how much snow by made, how much I corrected myself. If someone is still
mad at me in the world who says I don't forgive this guy, I don't forgive him before I'm about to
walk into jannah, he will say, Oh, hold on. I'm still upset. Angels, haul him into hell.
You think you and I control Allah's forgiveness? I'll give you just one example to put me and you
in our place, just to put us in our place. Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was in
Uhud and he got injured. He got hit. He fell unconscious. He wakes up from unconsciousness
and he says, how can Allah guide a people that spill its prophet's blood? He was upset with the
Quraysh who almost killed him. You know what Allah said to him? You have no authority. You don't
have no authority whatsoever. Or you are a slave to them or you are a slave to them.
Whether he forgives them, accepts their tawbah or he punishes them and they are in fact wrong.
Allah owns whatever is in the skies and whatever is in the earth.
He forgives whoever he wants and he punishes whoever he wants.
And Allah is forgiving. Allah is the loving and caring one. By the way,
who was the one person in the battle of Uhud that caused the prophet to bleed?
Actually, one person who turned the whole battle around. You know what that is?
His name is Khalid ibn Walid. He was the strategist who saw the Muslims are in a weak position.
We can come around, flank them from behind and that's when everything went bad for the Muslims.
What's his name? Did Allah forgive him? Did he become a Sahabi? The one who was the reason
for the prophet almost being killed. Right? Allah says he forgives whoever he wants. He punishes
whoever he wants. That's up to Allah. He can tell that to his prophet but you think you're going to
tell Allah that your cousin is not going to get forgiven because you're still mad. Whatever Allah
does with them, that's between Allah and him. You have your dealing with Allah and Allah says about
judgment. Allah will heal the hearts of believers. Yes, there may be somebody who's caused you pain
and you feel like they got away with it and maybe they'll just make tawbah. Thank you.
I like this better. These things make me sneeze more. I'll love the gesture.
At least I'm not sneezing so that's how happy I am about that because the amount of angels today.
Oh man. Okay. Anyway, so now let's move on to financial cleansing.
Here's what's coming up in the next episode and this deeper look of Surat al-Jumu'ah.
You know? Like for example, in many cultures you cannot get married until you have this much
degree, this much money. You've done this, this, this, this, and then maybe we'll think about getting
you married. And then once you are ready to get married, the mahat has to be this amount and this
amount and this amount. And then if you are going to get married, we have to have this kind of a hall
and this kind of catering and these kinds of gifts and there's like the bill keeps going higher and
higher and higher and higher. And what Allah did in Islam is he made the path to halal easy
and the path to haram difficult. And what many cultures do is they make the path to halal
extremely what? Difficult. And when you make the path to halal difficult automatically,
what becomes a lot easier? The haram becomes way easier. It's so much easier. You know?
