In many cultures, you cannot get married until you have this much degree, this much money,
you've done this, this, this, this, and then maybe we'll think about getting you married.
And then once you are ready to get married, the mahar has to be this amount and this amount and this amount.
What Allah did in Islam is He made the path to halal easy and the path to haram difficult.
And when you make the path to halal difficult automatically, what becomes a lot easier?
The haram becomes way easier. It's so much easier.
You know?
Assalamu alaikum. Before you begin this video, just quickly wanted to let you know that
so much of the work on the Quran has been completed on Bayanat TV.
I want you to enjoy systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end
in brief and then in great detail.
And to do that, I'd like for you to sign up on BayanatTV.com
and once you appreciate what's going on in Bayanat TV,
I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family
and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
Anyway, so now let's move on to financial cleansing.
Don't cheat each other in money matters.
Don't use money to grease the palms of politicians.
So you can cheat people and take their money.
Don't use bribery and corruption in politics.
Don't use corruption in financial matters.
You know, don't cheat each other, pay each other's money back, have clear contracts, fulfill your agreements.
What is that doing in a society?
It's cleaning up the financial dealings in a society, isn't it?
That's also a cleansing. There's a familial cleansing.
You know, this society, European society, Western society, America and Australia and Canadian,
they're all different.
But one thing you will notice there that you don't see as much in the Muslim world today is law and order.
Right? They have some things that I wish we saw more of in the Muslim world.
I was in Denmark in one place taking a walk and some guy was telling strawberries
and he just left his strawberries by the water with a bucket to put money in
and the sign of how much you can weight yourself, put money yourself.
And people come and they put the money in the goal.
And I'm like, huh, let's try this in Pakistan.
Forget the strawberries, the weighing machine.
So you look at and some of some of them, they come from, they see all that kind of corruption in the Muslim world
and then they come to Western nations to see there's so much honesty and integrity and there's so much good.
Yes, in some matters, they are actually closer to Tessgihar than the Muslims are, culturally speaking.
It's true. They're more integrity.
But in other matters, like, for example, how we treat our parents,
but the way Islam conditions us to treat our parents, especially as they get older.
Do you see how people are treated in these societies, how elders are treated in these societies,
how teenagers treat their parents?
Some guys, you know, dad's name is Frank and he was going to call them daddies and say, hey, Frank,
I'll be out late.
You know, and my dad's stupid, man, my old man, they don't even call my old man.
Right. My mom is so annoying.
I hate my parents.
Now you can have emancipation laws in America.
We have emancipation laws, meaning I declare myself free of my parents.
I have nothing to do with you.
They could do that.
And you have this beautiful tradition inspired by our religion, where we do we treat our parents with kindness and respect and goodness and
ihsan and everything that we can do with them.
That's and our siblings and our the young, right?
There's a there's a lot of them.
There's a love and care towards them, even the prohibition of alcohol.
Right. You will think it just has to do with food.
Do you know how many families are destroyed because of alcohol?
Like or gambling unless it's don't gamble, you know how many families are destroyed because of gambling?
Right. When he when he says don't commit Zina, you know how many families are destroyed because of Zina?
Right. So like the laws actually purify the life of a family.
And even the way in which breakups happen.
Okay, marriage is a reality.
So is divorce and divorce is ugly.
It gets ugly.
You know, I used to love you.
Now I don't.
I want to get away.
Well, Allah says, yeah, it might get ugly.
Here are exhaustive instructions on how to make sure divorce doesn't get ugly.
You know, in the Quran, Allah didn't talk about marriage a lot, but he talked about divorce a lot.
There's like multiple pages on divorce in Surat al-Baqarah.
There's a whole Surah, Surat al-Talaq.
There's no long.
Here's how to make a marriage happy.
That's just on YouTube.
That's not in the Quran.
You know why?
Because you can figure out how to make a marriage work, but you don't know how to make a clean exit.
You don't know that.
So Allah will teach you that.
He purified relationships.
He even purified the ends of relationships.
He purified even matters that happen after death, like how should family assets be destroyed?
Asset be distributed.
And then of course, there is societal cleansing.
Societal cleansing means Allah saved us from the burdens of culture.
Allah saved us because cultures create standards that are very difficult.
You know, like for example, in many cultures, you cannot get married until you have this much degree, this much money.
You've done this, this, this, this, and then maybe we'll think about getting you married.
And then once you are ready to get married, the maharat has to be this amount and this amount and this amount.
And then if you are going to get married, we have to have this kind of a hall and this kind of catering and these kinds of gifts.
And there's like the bill keeps going higher and higher and higher and higher.
And what Allah did in Islam is he made the path to halal easy and the path to haram difficult.
And what many cultures do is they make the path to halal extremely difficult.
And when you make the path to halal difficult automatically, what becomes a lot easier?
The haram becomes way easier.
It's so much easier.
You know, so what is even at a societal level, what our religion did is actually, you know, prevent evil by making the thing that Allah makes Allah is happy with.
He makes that easier.
But cultures make it difficult.
Culture.
And what's ironic to me is Muslim cultures make halal more difficult than even non-Muslim cultures.
Muslim cultures make halal more difficult.
And then we complain that the youth are going towards haram.
Right?
And we don't even address the root causes of it.
And all of these purifications are actually connected to each other.
Let me just give you a quick example, because this is something you should really contemplate.
Financial cleansing.
If you get rid of financial corruption in a society, you know what that means?
People can art an honest living.
Yes or no?
He says, don't pay politicians to get your way.
Didn't he say that?
Now, what happens in many Muslim societies, for example, you will get a job if your uncle is connected, if your dad's connected, if your friends, dads, cousins, brothers, whatever's connected, isn't it?
And even if you didn't do well on the exam, you can pay a little bit to the principal of the school or that or whoever, and you can get the degree.
You can buy the degree.
Or you can pay for your score.
Happens or no?
When people who didn't earn their degree get their degree and get their license.
What happens to the people who actually worked hard to get their degree?
Now they can't get a job.
Now their education means nothing.
Because now the people who didn't deserve are being moved out.
Now the people who could have earned are no longer in a position to earn.
And now they're no longer in a position to earn, which means they're no longer in a position to get married.
And then the people who are doing haram and money things, usually don't just do haram and money things, they do haram in everything.
So they're living the life they look like they're in Jannah.
So they're making haram look really good.
Because the more haram you do, the more you get in life.
And everybody else is looking at them and saying,
I wish I had what Karun has.
I wish I had a big wedding like that.
I wish I had a hall like that.
I wish I had family like that.
I had money like that.
I had clothes like that and a car like that.
I had a job like that.
Then you say, well, the only way you can get that is you got to start playing the game like they know how to play the game.
You got to lie a little bit on your resume.
You got to make some connections.
You got to get dirty.
You want to win this game?
You want to win in politics?
Life is dirty.
What is the opposite of dirty?
Pure.
What is a key him?
Right.
This is a very comprehensive statement.
And which is why I wanted to talk to you at the bottom.
Tuskegee starts with something in turtle.
Like introductory Tuskegee is my thoughts are becoming cleaner.
My opinions are becoming cleaner.
My worldview is becoming cleaner.
It's being detoxed from cultural imprints, from previous religious imprints.
Those are now getting away and I'm becoming cleansed in my thoughts by revelation.
But there's deep Tuskegee.
Let me give you the analogy.
If you have an impurity on your skin, something like dirt, is that easy to wash or no?
Yeah, that's easy to wash.
But if you have an infection inside, is that easy to get rid of?
No.
And the deeper and impurity is, the more painful it is to.
Extract it.
If a bullet has entered inside the body, then there has to be surgery, painful
surgery to extract it.
When it when a society has deep filth, when a family has deep filth, when you've
you've been living in deep filth and then you start to cleanse yourself, then you
have to go through painful surgery, which means the people that try to purify
themselves. This is a very painful process.
This is not an easy at the beginning.
It's just an intellectual process, a spiritual process.
That's fine.
But when you actually start taking steps towards purifying yourself, it's a
painful process.
An easy example of that, just because I don't want to speak only abstract.
I want to give you concrete examples of this.
It's like I reminded of a young man I met.
He was a little bit younger than me.
I met him at a masjid after Maghrib.
He was just kind of sitting there in the back waiting.
And I just decided to just have a chat with him.
And he said, I have never seen the inside of a masjid before in my life.
I was like, did you recently accept Islam?
He goes, no, I was born in a Muslim family.
And we don't pray.
I was like, why don't you pray?
I was like, well, our family is not religious.
And even though we're Muslim by name, we actually really hate Islam in my family.
And we own a bunch of bars in New York.
We have 20 bars.
Our family owns 20 bars in New York.
Very successful bar business.
All Muslims, by the way.
And we drink alcohol more than we drink water.
That's just in our family.
That's what we do.
I've done that my whole life.
And something just came in my head that I shouldn't drink anymore.
It just makes me do things I don't like myself when I drink.
And when he stopped drinking, he became curious about the Quran.
And he started reading a little bit, then watched some YouTube videos
and found out I was at this masjid.
He's like, ever since I stopped, I don't even pray yet.
He said, I don't even pray yet.
He said, but I just stopped drinking and my whole family cut me off.
And they're like, they're threatening me.
They're threatening to sue me.
I can't even go back to my home.
They changed the lock on the door.
I don't know where to go.
I don't know what to do.
What's he doing?
He took one step towards cleansing himself.
And look at the pain he's been through.
You understand?
So when he says, use a key him.
See the first step was actually painless.
He recites the ayat.
You listen to the ayat.
You hear what Allah is saying.
You can walk away.
Somebody heard the ayat in the marketplace and they walked away.
No problem.
But someone who decides that they're going to wait,
what did I just hear?
I need to hear more of this.
I need to go listen.
And when you start to try to purify yourself,
you need to purify yourself.
You need to purify yourself.
You start to try to purify yourself.
Man, the pain begins.
Some of you actually haven't told your families that you're here.
You're here secretly because your families can't tolerate that you're learning.
They can't tolerate that you're in a mud.
You went where?
In a musted?
Why?
Why did you go to a musted?
Is this why we brought you to Germany?
This is why we live here?
You want to be an extremist?
You want me to call the police on you now?
And like, I'm just not going to quietly.
I'm going to the library.
Okay.
And you show up.
Teske is painful.
The Sahaba started going through Teske.
Some people heard him.
They started listening to him.
And this is what I want you to understand the difference between
actually two things.
Use a key him and use a key be him.
He purifies them and he purifies them using it, meaning the Quran.
Actually, Allah is highlighting.
There's a Tawassur here.
I'll super simplify this.
Allah is saying the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam is purifying these people
that are coming close to him, not just by the Quran, but he was also by his company.
So if he was use a key him be he, then it would be about the Quran alone.
But use a key him now includes the Quran and includes the Prophet's company.
So Allah already use them.
So there's the wassur in this phrasing.
I also want you to understand this in easy marketing terms.
You guys understand the term funnel marketing?
You first expose somebody to the product and then you get them to click on your website
and then they get more information, right?
The Yatlu Aalayhim Ayatihi is just exposing people to revelation.
Just let them hear what it is.
And then some of them will say, I want to know more.
And the ones who want to know more will take a deeper dive and what's going to start
happening with their thoughts, with their opinions, with their views,
with their view of the world, with their hearts, with their emotions,
and eventually even with their actions.
That's going to be use a key him.
That's the second step.
Is everybody who hears the ayat going to make it to the second step?
No, some people will.
And some people will get a little bit of it and then say that's enough for me.
And others will say, no, this is not enough.
I need to take a deeper look.
Because this, the moment it starts getting painful,
some people say, you know what, I'm going to go back.
This is too painful.
And then people say, no, no, no.
You can't get really detoxed unless you go through some pain.
There has to be some surgical process here.
So they keep taking these further and further steps.
We'll use a key him.
Okay.
So this is understanding the progression.
Now we get to, and I'll give you a break in a minute,
but it reduces the next part.
A new verb.
He says he reads the ayat.
He purifies them.
But then he says he teaches them.
He teaches them.
What is the difference between reading something to someone and teaching someone?
It's a big difference or not?
When you read something, if I read something to you,
like the news is reading something to the audience, isn't it?
And you can listen to one hour of the news.
And then after listening to the news, I say, okay,
now give me a full summary.
What was said?
What's happening in Ukraine?
What's happening in the Khadij?
What's happening here?
What's happening there?
How many this?
How many I start quizzing you after listening to one hour of the BBC or whatever you listen to.
Are you able to answer all those questions?
Because when you listen to something, something was read to you,
that doesn't mean you actually learned it.
You just got exposed to it.
It's casual.
You're doing it while driving.
You're doing it while doing other tasks.
But if I teach you something, you know what that means?
That means, one, you are completely dedicated to learning.
Because you can't teach someone in the mall.
You have to teach someone in the classroom.
You have to teach someone who decides to become a student.
What I want you to recognize here is when the word youalimu is used,
now the audience is even more restricted.
Yatlu is the broadest audience.
Yuzakihim is the lesser audience.
And even within that is a subset, which is what?
Youalimu hon.
He teaches them.
He teaches them.
And now this teaching is about the Prophet,
alayhi wasalam, actually educating a handful of people
that are going to become his top students.
And they have to show him extra dedication for learning.
And this is actually the exact process that we must introduce in our communities,
around the world.
Muslim communities are around the world.
They say, why don't youth come to the masjid?
How come they don't come?
How can we do so many programs, but we only see old people there?
There's a young people coming.
Well, they're not coming because they don't know what they should come for.
They haven't been exposed to why should they even be interested.
What step gets them at least interested?
Why is this so powerful?
Why is this so miraculous?
Why do I need to learn it?
That's which step?
One, yatlu alayhim ayatihi.
That's step one.
And if somebody does become curious,
then there should be something there for them to nurture them
and to allow them to become cleansed little by little,
which is step one.
That's step two.
That's yukizakim.
There's something that, okay, let's take you,
let's give you some company where you can learn more,
or you can be around a company that supports you
and helps you cleanse your thoughts,
and you can share your ideas, your opinions,
your previous knowledge,
and that can get corrected a little bit.
That's deskia.
You're getting corrected intellectually.
You're getting corrected in your habits.
There were guys that used bad words.
Every other word that comes out of their mouth is a bad word.
Right?
Like, if you go to, you know, I moved to Texas.
People in Texas are nice.
They're actually nice.
So when you go to the store, they'll say,
hi, sir, how are you, sir?
How's it going, ma'am?
Oh, let me get that door for you.
Not like Germany.
I'm gonna tell you.
Well, you know, people are nice in Texas,
but when I used to live in New York,
I didn't realize in New York,
people use such bad language all the time.
They cannot say something like, I am at the bus stop.
They can't say that.
They have to say, I'm at the bus stop.
You heard?
Like, it's a verb.
It's an adverb.
It's an adjective.
It's a preposition.
It's every part of speech.
Okay.
That's a necessary insertion in between.
You know how some people are extra religious?
They like say subhanallah in everything,
like awkwardly.
Like, is it, some people, they just say that, you know,
sometimes I get awkward around those people.
Like, some people are overly subhanallah.
Like we're at a restaurant.
Sheikh, what are you gonna order subhanallah?
I was like, I'm not a sheikh.
And I'm just gonna place it order.
Yeah, subhanallah.
What would you like?
Oh, I'll have the chicken, shall we?
Oh, chicken subhanallah.
I'm like, okay.
That's better than New York.
Yo, boop, boop, boop.
Do you want any boop chicken?
And two extremes.
Yes, I'll have some subhanallah chicken.
But,
but the read, what I'm saying is some young man
who comes out of New York,
or comes out of that, you know, Berlin, I don't know.
They come, they come from that language.
And that's normal for them.
They use that all the time.
Some of you guys sitting in the masjid here,
you're a certain way here.
But when you're at school,
with your friends, that's a different kind of German in it.
That's a, that's, you know, that's a, that's spicy.
And then you replace that with subhanallah over here.
That's what you gotta do, right?
So, but when you're in good company for a longer time,
what happens to that young man?
He starts using those words.
Less.
Because that company is slowly detoxing those words.
Be said, is school for so called bad that he man,
that's the detox too, isn't it?
And then the things you talk about,
when you're, when you're with your boys at school,
and when you're girls in school,
what kind of subjects are you talking about?
You don't.
And then you're in a better company,
and what kinds of things are you talking about?
You're in a company learning something about the Quran.
What kinds of things are you discussing?
You know, a personal experience of mine on this,
and I'll give you a break, is that when I was in high school,
I was not into Islam at all.
All my friends were non-Muslim, all of them.
And I have a vicious, cruel sense of humor.
Like, I love humiliating people.
Like, this is one of my, one of my shaitans
is when people say something,
I can rip them apart.
And I was full on in high school.
Oh my, I was so insulting in high school.
I was the king of insults.
And then you come into like, the Islamic scene, right?
And you can't, like, which one, well, it's so easy.
Somebody's gonna just want to rip them apart,
like, no, no, no.
Subhanallah.
But one of the things that happened was,
my old friends, the things we used to talk about is,
you know, sports, cars, other things that shall not be named.
And then I go with my new friends
at the Muslim Students Association,
and we go to this, I went to the poor people school,
Baruch College, which was like $1,600 a semester.
That was the poor people college.
One time, we went to a Muslim Students Association
at Columbia University, which was like $40,000 a year
for 17, 18-year-olds.
So those are the rich people school.
So I was like, man, there's gonna be some rich Muslims in Columbia.
Let's go see what the rich Muslims do.
So we go there, we're sitting in a circle,
and there's a bunch of college students
that are maybe a year or two older than me.
They're 18, 19 years old, 20 years old at the most.
And they're discussing how they're trying to put money together
to sponsor orphans that have been distraended
because of a flood that happened in Bangladesh.
And they've got a banner of one of the kids
that they're trying to sponsor.
And these students are gonna make some difference
by helping this one child.
And I come from a company of guys that are like,
yo, what are we gonna do this weekend?
What are we gonna go?
What should we do?
These are the conversations,
the low-level conversations.
And now I'm in the company of people
that are a year or two older than I am.
They're much wealthier than I am.
They're much more prestigious than I am in my mind.
So you would think if they have more money,
they have more prestige, they're wealthier.
They must be partying way harder.
And yet they're talking about things that are really
so high up.
And I felt dirty inside.
What is it that makes these young people think like this?
How come I don't think like this?
How come my mind is down here and their mind is up there?
Something that Allah's Deen does,
something that this book does, is that it cleanses.
So,
Du'aadihi ma'yatihi wa yuzaqeeb.
And then from there, from that cleansing,
then you get to you,
adeemuhumil kitab.
I'll tell you one more thing.
If you started teaching the fsir,
high level tfsir,
or you started teaching fiqh,
or you started teaching aqeedah, or whatever,
you started these classes and courses,
how many people show up?
Five people?
That becomes three people?
That is just the Imam and his best friend?
And then there's a wedding the next weekend and then,
you know, it's just tarakuqa qa'ima,
they just leave you alone.
All these people don't even want an education.
They don't want to learn anything.
Well, they don't want to learn anything
because the first two steps aren't in place.
When those steps are in place,
by the way, the people who will seriously learn
it will never be a large population.
The people who will seriously learn
will always be a smaller population, right?
Because you can't expect that high level of commitment
from everybody.
In fact, that wasn't even expected from all the sahaba.
Not all the sahaba were learning all the time.
There were people in,
you know,
oh, they were on the sofa.
They were subset.
They were not everyone.
Everyone had other responsibilities.
So there will be some learning that happens
and happens more exclusively.
So you shouldn't guilt yourself.
That's the other thing about this.
You shouldn't guilt yourself
that you're not engaged in higher learning.
And until you do higher learning
and you become a sheikh yourself or,
you know, you leave society and go sit under a tree
to learn some classical texts,
then you're not a good Muslim.
No, that's not the point.
The point is the few who do learn,
their responsibility becomes to teach.
Everyone else.
And the Quran talks about that too.
Allah talks about that too.
But I will now,
in our next session after your break,
I'm going to dedicate our time
talking about Al-Kitab particularly.
And I'm going to share some things with you
Al-Kitab and then Al-Hikmah
and wrap up today's session.
BarakAllahu Lillahi Wabarakum Tul Qura'iru Hakim
Wala Fa'ali Wa Iyya'akum Ridayat Wadhakil Hakim.
Asalaamu Alaykum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world
that are interested on top of the students we have
in studying the Quran and its meanings
and being able to learn that
and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships,
which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students
on Bayna TV,
please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much.
And pray that Allah gives our mission success
and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran
and the beauty of it the world over.
