The reason I'm telling you all of this is nowadays we hear a lot of
People say oh you have to follow the Quran and the Sunnah and what they mean by Sunnah is Google whether there's a hadith or not
Right, that's not Sunnah
That's a hadith and to understand how that hadith was applied so that you understand the Sunnah is the next step
You can't just look at a hadith and say now I know exactly what to do. You understand
So before we talk about the change in sequence
Bismillahirrahmanirrahim
Wa-A'la wa-Sallam wa-A'la wa-Sallim
Wa-A'la al-Alihi wa-Sallim
Before we talk about the change in sequence with Ibrahim, there's two more things
I wanted to talk to you about in regards to the book and the wisdom that I didn't talk about in the last session
So I'm going to quickly mention them now one way you can look at wisdom is
Actually the way Allah describes wisdom in different places in the Quran if you take a look at that
You'll see that there's a difference between what you can call laws and on the other side morals
Laws and morals or morality ethics even another word for that can be ethics and the difference is important to understand
Allah is something that's very precise
Okay, like fasting begins at this time ends at this time. That's a law
The Salahs are at Kitab al-Muqtah. That's Allah specific in inheritance
Who which family member gets gets how much is a law? So laws are very specific
Another distinguishing factor with some laws is that laws when you break them are punishable
So there are laws that include punishments to right laws not every law has punishments
But some laws can also have punishments, right?
Another important factor about laws you should know is laws deal with
extremes
This is also in any society laws deal with extremes like most laws that are written in the books are not written for normal people
They're written for criminals
Right because the law of you know like controlling your speed on the highway or the laws against stealing or the laws against
Robbery or the laws against murder or the laws against those kinds of kidnapping and those kinds of things those laws are not written for
Normal people they're written for the most extreme criminal elements of society
So you'll find in the Quran the laws of the Quran of course deal with all of this they deal with specifics
they also deal with
You know
Punishments in some cases and then they also deal with very extreme situations
So just because you see a law in the Quran doesn't mean that that's meant for everyone
It's meant for very very extreme situations the craziest members of society
Need to have some laws on the book because you never know what human beings are capable of you understand
So I'll say something that's obvious as a crude example, but an important example
Unless it's for you but I like a little bit of a lot of you
Well, I thought you come on my to come like it's haram for you to marry your mothers and your aunts and your daughters and your you
know Allah says that but obviously it's obvious for
The vast majority of humanity, but some psychos are out there
That need to be punished if they have some sickness like that you understand
So the laws have to be there to prevent those kinds of extremes and to actually be able to punish those kinds of extremes if they happen
Anyway, so that's a little bit about laws
But let's talk about wisdom and I said this time wisdom you can look at it as morality, right?
So an example of wisdom in the Quran is what I tell chief in our demaraha walk on the earth with humility
Don't walk on the earth with pride
How do you know if somebody's walking on the earth with pride or walking on the earth with humility?
You can't have some Islamic police check. Hey
Fix your humble your walk
No, no, I'm not walking with swag. I have a swollen foot. That's why I'm walking like this
That's not my gangster walk. That's just you know, I have an injury
Right, you can't check if somebody's walking with pride
That's so one of the the first thing you should know about morality is you cannot
Immediately catch someone doing it or it's it's pretty much never punishable
You could obey the law and still be very immoral
You could be very unethical person. Unless it's for example, you know, don't raise your voice in surah
but with a passage on wisdom and let says, you know
Wadud bin sultekin na ankara naswati nasotul hamir lower your voice
The the argovious voice is the brain of a donkey the sounds made by a donkey or a mule
Right. So but does does that mean that if you raise your voice, you've done something hara?
No, you've done something
unethical
unwise
But you haven't necessarily done something hara so now we're learning that as far as our behavior is concerned
Allah expects us to act within the law and
Also, Allah expects us to I act wisely
The problem happens when a lot of people think all Islam is this halal and hara
Halal and hara is about the law, but it's not about what?
Wisdom so the only question is is this halal is this hara is this halal is this hara
Okay, it's not halal then it's okay. No, no, no
Hadad maybe halal, but they also at the same time may not be what?
May not be wise may not even be moral
That's the other side you got a check
Right, so that's that's another another dimension of it. Okay. It's a silly example, but like
Is it halal to eat peanuts? Yeah, but is it wise for you to eat peanuts if you have a peanut allergy?
Probably not
You understand so there is a distinction between morality and law so that's one quick thing the other quick comment
In regards to this is about hadith because you know
Imam Shafiq said that Hikmah can refer to the Sunnah of the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
So I wanted to make a quick comment about
Humility in understanding hadith
so the thing is
This analogy will help you if you look inside a door
From a keyhole like a small hole in the door and you look inside how much of the room do you see?
Very little but if somebody looks inside the room and sees this much and then says now I will describe the entire room to you
Is that a fair accurate depiction or do you have to use a lot of the imagination?
In a lot of imagine. Okay. Now let me ask you the question if two people are talking about like let's say me and some other young man are talking
And he says I have a problem with my brother, you know, he's he's this he's back
You know, he beats me up or whatever. I'm talking to him. I say, you know what sometimes you should fight back a little bit or something and
You walk by and you heard three seconds of that conversation
Okay, you don't know the beginning of it. You don't know the end of it. You know the middle three seconds
Is it accurate for you to take the convert the three-second conversation and then say you know inspired by Assad
I think anytime you meet your brother you should beat him up because and I have an authentic recording of him saying fight back with your brother
So throw a punch or two. Would that be fair of you to do?
No, because you're not being first of all, you're not recognizing the conversations happen sometimes inside a context and
outside of that context
You cannot use them a
Doctor and a patient are having a conversation the doctor says you need to eat this this this and you need to you need to avoid
This this and this that's specific to the patient. Yeah, but this patient is an influencer
So he goes after the doctor patient of what may says everyone stop eating this this this and make sure you take this medication every morning
This is authentically researched the base research. What wait? Hold on a second
You can't tell everyone to do that because that was specific prescription for who?
For you you understand now, let's understand what happens in many a hadith of the prophets
Allah, I said sometimes the prophets like them is talking to all of the Muslims
Which means everybody's being addressed
Sometimes a specific person comes to the prophets I said that says I need help
Help me with the situation or that situation and you'll find many a hadith with a person comes to the prophets
I said them and talk stand and the prophet gives him an answer
It's also interesting to note that different people come and say one of the genres of hadith is
Submarine comes and says what's the best thing that I can do?
Right and another person says the same question. What's the best thing that I can do another person says
What's the best thing that I can do and you'll find these different hadith erasions. There are different answers
It's not the same answer
If that one person who was told this is the best thing you can do goes on by the way guys the best thing you all can do is this and
The other guy says what do you mean? No, no, no, the best thing you can do is what the prophet told me
And the other one comes in no, no, no, no, which is both wrong the best thing you can do is what the prophet told me
Guys, sorry for the interruption in the middle of this lecture just before you continue
I want to let you know and encourage you that I want you to sign up for bayinatv.com and help other sign up
I even sponsor students for bayinatv.com
So we can create worldwide communities of students that are studying the meanings and the benefit and the wisdom of the Quran
And are in shallow tala spreading that in their own circles. Thanks so much
What do you think is happening when people come to the prophets?
I said as opposed to when the prophet is talking to everyone is there a difference
Because when the prophet is talking to someone who came to him
He it is because he's the source of wisdom in the humanity. He's first looking at who am I talking to?
What is their situation? What is their background? What is it that this person needs? I'm gonna give them a prescription
for them they need this
It is important for us to first understand is the prophet saying something so the law of Adam
That is meant for everyone or was that specific to a?
Person is not important
Now there's another piece of the puzzle the analogy I gave you is this much. Yes
There's a conversation happening and the prophet says something
And you're like, oh, there's a hadith. He said this like is this part of a larger conversation
Who was this conversation being had with? Did he have this conversation with other people?
Do we know the whole picture or do we know this much?
If you read that hadith of the prophet so that it might take you three seconds to read the entire hadith
You think the conversation was just three seconds
We could the conversation have been five minutes
Could have been ten minutes
Could it have been over multiple days? Is that possible? Is there a lot we don't know?
Yeah, so some and this is where just googling. Oh, I found a hadith in Bukhari and in Muslim
Or it's in Abu Maj'ud and Abu Dawud or Ibn Maj'ah and therefore that we should do all we should all do this hold on a second
You're thinking that the moment you find the letter
You know the moment you find the letter you've got it figured out the Muslims historically never did this
This is a new phenomenon in the last century
For the religions been around a long time and nobody simply just took a head the defense said this is what we're all gonna do
Nobody was doing this but because we have now it's the age of information
We have access to the glimpse of the conversation of the Prophet's life. So now this is the difference between the hadith
Narration and the faqih
What is the faqih do the faqih says the Prophet said this alaihi sato srahm, but let's find out who he said it to
Let's find out when he said it. Let's find out where he said it
Let's understand the larger context because without it we might come to the wrong conclusion. Is that possible?
Yeah, it's very possible. It's very possible. You might come to the wrong conclusion
It's also very possible that he was dealing with a very specific case and you pretend that you're dealing with this is about
Everyone the reason I'm telling you all of this is nowadays. We hear a lot of
People say oh you have to follow the Quran and the Sunnah and what they mean by Sunnah is Google whether there's a hadith or not
Right, that's not Sunnah
That's a hadith and to understand how that hadith was applied so that you understand the Sunnah is the next step
You can't just look at a hadith and say now I know exactly what to do
You understand and there are other issues too like if the Prophet's life is something
then of course the Sahaba are the ones that are listening and
If they like I'll give you a silly example even though I'm not a fifth person
But I discussed fifth with scholars and colleagues and things the results I said it says who are full yet? Yeah
Grow the beard. He says grow the beard. Okay, so shall I okay fine grow the beard
That's what the results that I saw to set up. What how much should I grow it?
When should I cut it? How much should I cut the mustache? What's the length of it? These are technical questions, right?
Well, one way you can go about it is you could say I found one Sahabi who had this much beard or I won't found one
But then you might take Imam Malik's approach is let's look at how people in Medina
Have their beards because they're the people that lived inspired by the Prophet's life so I'm in the first generation
Or even Abu Hadifa might say there are hundreds of Sahaba that live in Kufa
because Adi radiAllahu anhu made the capital of Islam Kufa in Baghdad
Right and there's hundreds of companions that live there. Let's look at their beers before we decide to set a rule on how long
Beers should be that's pretty logical because the Sahaba wouldn't be disobeying the messenger's life
But if you don't know that background because this is the foqa discussing it you don't know that background you just say hey
There's a hadith it says grow. It didn't say stop growing
Keep on going bro
Just keep on growing and cut it didn't say when to stop cutting so you keep on cutting
Right that's a to me. That's a problem to me. That's an issue because it's not just about citing
Oh, where'd you get the words you the Neil brother the the Neil bros?
Okay, but the thing with the deal approach is we're not looking at the actual context
Which is how do you find a picma?
This is this is against wisdom and this is wisdom that the early Muslims had and this is something that you should become more humble to like
When somebody sites that when somebody tells me a deep of the province I said up my first reaction is I don't know yet
That's honestly my first react. I need to know more
Where did this come from? How was this understood? What others?
You know and narrations are around this. What is the background to this? Who are the people involved?
Let me get a little bit more than this before I say I know
because
Knowing this much and claiming this much is arrogance in my opinion
That's just my personal personal take on what is what goes against wisdom?
No souls I said I was taught the law and he was taught the wisdom now
Let's answer this question about Ibrahim alaih said up thousands of years ago. He brought him
Aslam asked the question he made dua to Allah this wise do I send a messenger among my children for through
Ismaa a messenger and
Thousands of years later from the line of Ismaa a.s. Salam comes
And so does Allah so Allah alaih was Salam on the other side of Rahim alaih salam and is haq
His haq is a prophet alaih salam
Ishaq alaih salam gives birth in his family. There's Yaqub. Who's a prophet Yaqub has a child named
You some who's a prophet and the soul says him tells us
Kullaba had a kind of a baby you'll cut off a baby you every time a prophet died another one took their place
Among the Israelites so their side the is haq part of the Ibrahim's family
Prophet Prophet Prophet Prophet Prophet brought every sign until Jesus
Until Aisa and even when Aisa was there another prophet was there with him. Yeah, yeah
So they were there together
They were two at the same time or even Musa wasn't alone. Musa was with who?
How long are they salam and there were other you know if two from the Israelites dimension the ones mentioned in Ya see
There were three messengers at the same time so as does that be 30 thin even three messengers at the same time so that happened now
On the Ismaa inside Allah says based the Ibrahim a.s. I'm asked for how many messengers?
Well, but I will be him Rasul one messenger so it's my
thousands of years and
then
We're supposed to last all of us
But from the line of his haq when Musa a.s. I was giving the book
I read the passage to you from so far now off Allah told Musa a.s. And the 70 leaders look out for a Nabi
Umi
The be a Nabi Umi and they and this is important in soot al-baqara is soot al-baqara
Allah says that Ibrahim a.s. I'm gathered all of his children
Yaqub a.s. I'm gathered all of his children by the way another name of Yaqub is Israel
This is really important another name of Yaqub is what?
Islaeem so when he gathered his children these were the children of
Islaeem literally, but he's right the children of Israel
When he was dying he said who will you worship and what will you worship after I'm God?
La ta'buduna bin ba'di soot al-baqara
Here's what they said now. We'll do it a haka way that haka abaika Ibrahim a was ma'ida was haka
We will worship your God and the God of your of your father's Ibrahim and
Isma'eem and
Ishaq who did they acknowledge as one of their fathers?
Isma'eem
Isma'eem later Israelites
Dismiss Isma'eem he's from the cursed line. He's not really a son and all of that
But when Yaqub when Israeem himself
Aleyhis Salam was dying and he asked them what will you worship after I'm gone?
They referred to Isma'eem before they even referred to Ishaq because he's their older uncle
He's older than their dad so they went in age order
Ibrahim Isma'eem and then
Ishaq and from the line of Isma'eem eventually comes Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
This is why the Quran says they know they know him like they know their own children
They know him like they know their own children and they know the Kaaba like to know their own children because if you how can you know?
Ibrahim aleyhis salam and not know the Kaaba. How does that make any sense and?
Isma'eem aleyhis salam and Ibrahim aleyhis salam built the Kaaba and after that is haq is born
This haq is younger. He's born afterwards
How is this haq being raised by Ibrahim aleyhis salam not learning about the Kaaba does that make any sense?
The house that Allah made him build after passing all the tests and his haq doesn't know about the Kaaba that makes no sense
So they know
Now this dua that he was making he said to Allah. Ya Allah these children my child is a prophet and
My other child is the Allah has promised him prophecy on that side
So he's assuming that his children are going to be pure
All they need is when they hear the ayaat of Allah, they'll be ready to act on them
The moment they get exposed to the ayaat of Allah because who is Ibrahim aleyhis salam if qala la hu rabbuhu aslam qala
Aslam to me my beloved whenever Allah said to him surrender. What did he do?
He surrendered immediately and what did he learn from his child?
He told his child in the arafil manami and the adhbhuhaqa
I see in my dream that I'm slaughtering you. What did his son say? Hold on dad
What is the sense if I'm a tuba yama tiffa I'm a tuba dad do whatever you're being told
He's exactly like his dad whenever he hears the word of Allah. He immediately what?
Obesity so in his mind when you hear the ayaat of Allah
Then you're ready to learn what Allah tells you to do and you'll do it you add me move on kitaba well
Hikmah and yes over time we should make sure that we remain cleansed cleansing was not a prerequisite for obedience in his experience
Because he's he's got these pure kids. He's got himself. He's pure of heart and his child is pure of heart
So he makes the dua from the best way he could think from the human perspective Allah answered his door
But Allah answered his door
By perfecting his door
The human being asks to the best of their ability and Allah takes as he takes every element of his prayer and answers it
But perfects it
He says don't you ask for the right things?
But I'm going to give you the right order of things that only Allah could have known and which is yet
Lou Aleyhi my a tida we come out on that we can listen to me come you're so dumb you have to do I'll make my
Attida we use a key cool when you add them to the kitaba with him
All of these ayaat connect with the IE we're studying for example
I'll a Ziz al-Hakeem in sort of a carat connects with sort of a juma doesn't it and
Then in the next I Allah says where you only move common the second I aka I a 151
He ends the I a by saying where you I'm the mocomma. I don't take will tell them when he teaches you what you couldn't have known
Well, you couldn't have known because you were ummi in and
I mean is mentioned where?
So to do my this is connecting to that too and then in the last one look at man
Allah who I don't mean in Allah has done a huge favor to the believers
When he appointed a messenger among them so in other Imran he before he mentions these four steps
He mentions that Allah has done them a huge favor
Guess what's coming in the next time two aisles later in sort of a little juma that I think I follow
Allah you teach me in shot that is the favor of Allah
He gives it to whoever he wants so I did run bakara 151 bakara 129 all tie into sort of juma
And one way or the other the aya that we're learning from and so we conclude this with where in Kadovin
Come to the field of the movie even though they had been clearly
Clearly lost now Allah is going to now
In the next I open up the future plan of the Oma and that's where I'm really excited to discuss with you guys tomorrow
Inshallah was not only will be finished the first section of the Sunnah tomorrow
We're also going to start section two tomorrows
I'm going to give you an overview of the first section
Which is the first four ayat of the Sunnah two are done today two will be done tomorrow in shahla
And then we will get an overview and begin the the parable portion of the surah
So that's my doubts for the day
Barak aba al-ghazi walakum fin Quran al-hakim
Wa nafa'ani wa iya'kum bin ayatim wa bi-kikim
Salamu alaikum everyone
There are almost 50,000 students around the world that are interested on top of the students
We have in studying the Quran and its meanings and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends
And they need sponsorships which is not very expensive
So if you can help sponsor students on bayna TV, please do so and visit our sponsorship page
I appreciate it so much and pray that Allah gives our mission success and we're able to share the meanings of the
Quran and the beauty of it the world over
