Which is why social media is so addictive. A lot of times people end up on social media for hours and hours
because they're escaping a reality that they don't want to face.
Right? They can't deal with it. A lot of people end up at a bar drinking because they can't deal with what's going on at home
or what's going on with their life. They can't face that reality.
So when the reality becomes difficult, then human beings want to find some comfort in, you know, some kind of distraction.
So it's not just, oh, they saw some entertainment. They ran towards it, put it in its context.
They were going through a really tough time and in those kinds of times, those kinds of things become all the more attractive.
Salamu alaikum. Before you begin this video, just quickly wanted to let you know that
so much of the work on the Quran has been completed on bayanah TV.
I want you to enjoy systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end in brief and then in great detail.
And to do that, I'd like for you to sign up on bayanahtv.com.
And once you appreciate what's going on in bayanah TV, I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family
and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
Salamu alaikum wa rahmatullah wa barakatuhu.
We are attempting to understand the final ayah of Surah al-Jumu'as, ayah number 11.
A rough translation is what I will start with.
And when they see a trade or distraction, in fadhu ilayha, they run towards it or they disperse towards it.
And they leave you standing.
Tell them what is in Allah's possession is better than distraction and better than trade or business.
Wa Allahul khairul raziqeen.
And Allah is the best of all providers, boys.
Hey boys, hey boys.
Yeah, guys, you're distracting.
So turn this way.
Yeah.
Cool, we're cool.
Okay, very good.
All right, so inshaAllah, so as we wrap up this this ayah, I want to just start with a little bit of vocabulary and then we'll get into it.
There are a few key words, tijara, lahu, infadha, taraka, and then jizq.
Those are the few key words that in this ayah.
So we'll start with tijara so you guys understand that word better.
The word tijara is one of those words in Arabic that is very rare because the ta and the jim, they don't really come together in Arabic in the beginning of a word.
It's the only word in Arabic like that.
So usually Arabic words are made up of three root letters, most of them.
And there's no other word that has ta and jim together like that except for tijara.
The word ittajara, which means to trade or to seek a reward.
Al-amal talaban del-ajar, any work you do hoping that you'll get paid will be called tijara.
So that's the first basic meaning.
Al-tasarru fi raasil maal talaban lirribh.
When you invest, hoping that you'll make some profit from it, investments are also called tijara.
So so far tijara is work.
Anything you're hoping to get paid for, investments.
Ful'anu antajir bi katha ayhaziq bihi a'arifu al-wajha al-muqtasib minhu.
When something is a tajir of something, that means they're really good at it.
And they know how to earn from it.
So like an expert can also be called a tajir.
Okay, someone is a tajir in something, that's their trade.
You know like their trade is so and so, their trade is mechanics, their trade is cars, etc.
So that's another meaning.
Most of the time the word tajir was actually used for the guy that sells wine in the old Arabic before Islam.
They use this word very commonly for the wine seller.
Which he was the one selling the wine, he was also the bartender.
He was the one storing it and they used to sit with him and he would court for them and tell them stories and then they would pay him.
So he was doing all the work, right?
So from the beginning to end and from it they kind of started using that for anybody who makes money doing all kinds of work.
So it kind of expanded in its meaning.
Anyway, now this ayah, another word that we're going to see and I'll just explain the word to you ahead of time,
is the word lahu.
Lahu actually commonly gets translated distraction and you might see for example some short surahs,
you may remember Al-Haqumut Takathur, right?
So al-Ha is from this word, lahu.
And it means, it actually means the back of your throat, the yufila, the thing that's hanging in your throat dangling.
That's actually called al-Haq.
And lohua is, they have those grinders that make the seed into powder, they make the seed into wheat, right?
When they drop the seeds in it, the thing that's dropped in it, that's actually called al-Luhua.
So from it came the idea that when you drop something deep inside, like this thing that's hanging deep inside
and you're dropping the seed inside the grinder.
And from it came the idea that when you are involved in an activity that you get sucked into it.
You just get pulled into it and you kind of get lost in it, right?
That kind of an activity is called lahu.
So for example, if you're, I don't know, watching a movie, playing a game,
you know, you're just scrolling TikTok on your phone or something and you lost track of time and you just,
you got, you get deeper and deeper in it and the world around you stops to exist, right?
And when that happens, then that is a form of lahu.
So from it came the idea of distraction.
This word was used even for the Prophet ﷺ.
Fa anta anhu talaha.
Is surat al-Abasah, right?
Amma ja'aka wa amma man ja'aka yas'a wa huwa yakhshah.
Fa anta anhu talaha, from the same origin, right?
So the Sahabi Abdullah ibn Ummaqtum, he was a relative of the Prophet ﷺ,
a distant relative from the in-law side and he was also blind.
And he came somehow to ask the Prophet a question, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
And the Prophet ﷺ had a rare opportunity to talk to one of the leaders of Quraish.
The leaders of the Quraish, first of all, you can't get a hold of them easily.
But if you do get a rare chance to talk to them, you should take full like, full opportunity
and speak to them as best chance you get, right?
So the Prophet is taking this opportunity to talk to one of the leaders about Islam
and Abdullah ibn Ummaqtum, who's one of his family members,
who actually, because you're family, you have access.
So you can talk to him anytime.
But he came and he interrupted the conversation.
And but he's also blind.
But the thing about being blind is that when you're blind, your other senses are more sharp,
right?
So he's blind, but he's not deaf,
which means he can hear that there's already a conversation going on.
But it didn't matter to him.
He was so feeling such a need of urgency to ask the Prophet ﷺ whatever question he wanted to ask.
So he interrupted the conversation.
Now the Prophet ﷺ did not want to interrupt him and say,
Hey, Abdullah, let me finish this and I'll talk to you.
Just give me a minute.
I'll talk to you.
Even that much the Prophet ﷺ thought would be too harsh for Abdullah.
It would be too much for him because he would say,
I came all this way to ask the Prophet ﷺ and I've now,
and he would feel bad.
I interrupted.
I didn't realize or he would get the wrong idea and say,
Oh, I'm not that important.
Right.
So the Prophet ﷺ did not want to make him feel bad.
And he didn't want to lose the opportunity of talking to the Quraishi leader.
Now he's stuck in the situation where if he talks to Abdullah bin Umqtum,
the Quraishi leader will be like, Oh, I guess you're busy right now.
I'm going to go.
I have other things to do and he's going to walk away.
The opportunity is gone.
So the Prophet ﷺ was stressed about what to do.
And when he was stressed, there was a bulge on his forehead.
This is this is called Abbas.
Like when these lines show up on your forehead and these this comes together.
This is Abbas.
And the Prophet ﷺ just kind of turned his head just a little bit.
You know when you do in frustration,
but no sound came out of his mouth.
No word was said.
And by the way, why wouldn't he say a word?
Because if he says a word, who's going to hear it?
Abdullah will hear it and he's going to feel like something is off.
And if he just does, this is called Ta'awwaha.
Right.
Then he's going to notice.
Who's going to notice that?
So he's going to feel hurt.
So he's not even doing that.
But Allah captures that and says,
He frowned.
He turned his head.
But the thing about turning your head or even turning your face a little bit
is Abdullah, whose supposed feelings are supposed to be hurt,
can't see it.
So there's no way he could get hurt.
But Allah captures that still and says,
Nope, not even that much.
Abbas.
Right.
Now this is what's Allah s.w.
And we're not worth the dust of his feet.
But I can tell you in being in a position of public speaking,
one of the things that's very, very, very difficult
is somebody comes and asks me a question.
And they come and ask me a question and they tell me
that their uncle, when they were five years old,
they took them for a walk and then they said this.
And then their cousin said this and their brother said this.
And also this other time, their grandma,
she was cooking food and then they keep going.
Right.
And they're telling me the entire,
because they say, before I ask my question,
I need you to understand the background.
It all began when I was five years old.
And then by the time I was seven,
and then one time in ninth grade,
and then one time, and the day I got married,
and then after my first baby,
and then, okay, you're almost ready for the question.
Hold on.
And as they're doing that, the people behind them are like,
and now I have to make a choice about,
can I just, can you please get to your question?
Because even if I say, can you please get to your question,
what might they feel?
Oh my God, he has no patience for me.
He doesn't want to hear what I have to say, how rude.
I had listened to so many hours of you.
I have gone to sleep.
I have gone to sleep for 10 years listening to you,
and you couldn't even hear about my uncle.
We, you know, but in my head, I'm thinking,
if I am not going to cut the short,
then the other person's going to think I'm being rude to them.
Right?
And then there's a few hundred of you.
There's one of me.
Right?
So if I give each of you one minute,
right, just one minute, that would be how many minutes?
That'd be 400 minutes.
And each one of you would feel like I only got one minute.
And I would feel like I'm almost dead.
Because,
so when you're in a position of any kind of leadership,
sometimes you are,
and this is not just in public speaking,
parents, for example,
three of your kids come and talk to you at the same time.
And you have,
you can't talk to all three of them
because you only have one mouth.
Right?
So you decide to pick one of them.
And what did the other two feel all of a sudden?
All of a sudden, they feel like,
oh yeah, okay, yeah, listen to her first.
Yeah.
She's the favorite.
Right?
Or you hear in the background, you hear,
you know, whatever.
You hear that just on the little bit of,
you know.
So there's this difficult position he was put in.
And Allah even captured that and said,
for a moment,
you got distracted from the blind Sahabi
because you were trying to get the message across to the leader.
I don't want you to worry about the leaders ever,
more than I want you to worry
about the weakest of your companions.
They are my VIPs.
That's not my VIP.
Those are my VIPs.
In the world's eyes,
the millionaire, the billionaire,
if I had a chance to give Bawah to Elon Musk
or if I had a chance to talk to Jeff Bezos about Zakat
or something, you know,
that's a huge opportunity.
And then there's a guy who doesn't have a job,
who's, you know, he's trying to make whatever money he can,
driving an Uber,
and he's not making his expenses.
And he has a question.
And all of a sudden, I'm like,
what's going to be a bigger benefit to Islam?
If I can get Jeff Bezos Zakat money,
or if I can, you know, talk,
and Allah is teaching a powerful lesson
to the Prophet's life,
that he, you know,
and Allah says,
and the one who came to you rushing,
Allah mentions Yas'a.
You know how hard it is
for a blind person to walk fast?
Allah acknowledges that.
And he says,
and he's afraid that he might disobey Allah.
He's got, he's full of fear of Allah.
And the more you are mindful of Allah,
the more Allah is,
Allah says,
you remember me, I will remember you.
So Allah is now remembering him.
And he says,
You got too busy that you couldn't give him attention.
And it's not like the Prophet wasn't giving him attention.
He was just,
just had a turn of the head.
But the standard is very high for our messenger,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
And if that's the standard,
and we say, you know, we, I hear,
sometimes I hear things and I just say,
really, do you really believe that?
Because he was like,
bro, we have to follow Quran and Sunnah.
Quran and Sunnah.
How many times do you hear that?
Quran and Sunnah.
I was like, okay.
Oh, what do you mean by Quran and Sunnah?
Well, you know, the miswak,
the beard,
the beard size,
let's check the beard size to make sure that it's on the Sunnah.
Let's make sure that, you know, the clothing.
And you know what,
some of those things can be argued,
but there are some things that cannot be argued.
There are multiple variations of how to interpret some of those Sunnah
of the Prophet's life.
So I'm fine.
But there are some things that are unargu,
inarguable, how to treat people.
There's no ambiguity.
Sunnahs of the Prophet's life.
Where are those Sunnahs, bro?
Where did those Sunnahs go?
What, that's not Quran?
That's not Sunnah, you know?
So we also get distracted by certain things
in the face of other things.
And we've come up with our own,
you know, we have to do the greater good.
And you could do a lot of bad things
and hurt a lot of bad,
a lot of people because you're worried about the greater good.
You know?
So this, anyway,
so that's a side nobody about lehu,
lehu actually means to get distracted by something
that keeps you from something more important.
Right?
It keeps you from something more important.
That's happened sometimes to me,
like I'm going to a doctor's appointment or something,
and I'm not going to get a chance to get this appointment.
It was like six months waiting or something.
And I got a chance, and I have a work meeting.
And what happens with me with work meetings is,
I don't know what it is.
I have to drive while I'm having a meeting.
I can't, I can't sit and have a meeting.
I have to be walking, driving, doing something.
And the more, the more intense the meeting is,
the more straight I drive.
So I missed the exit because I'm having a meeting.
I'm like, what did you say?
I'm like, oh, ghosting meeting.
That's also lehu.
Lehu because one thing distracted me from something else.
That's, that's the meaning of that.
Okay.
So there's just some vocabulary that I want you to know.
And lehi, lehi to be shayin also means to fall in love with something,
to actually fall in love with something.
Like you're just completely enveloped in it.
You know, like you lost in love, the idea of lost in love.
You just fell on fallen in love.
That's how it's used actually in Arabic.
وَكَذَا دِكَ لَعِبْتُ بِهِ
Just, and the same way this word is used in when you just play,
when you're playing with something and you're just engrossed in the play,
you're lost in the game.
Like some of you are gamers.
I'm a gamer.
I don't know any other gamers here.
Was it for you?
Alhamdulillah.
Okay, good.
It's okay.
It's okay.
We'll have a support session later on.
Yeah.
Right.
When you're really in the game and then,
doesn't matter who the family member is,
they walk in front of you.
Like you have one hit left on the boss.
It took you so long to get to that one hit.
He's crushed you so many times.
You've almost broken the controller six or seven times now.
And finally there's one hit left and your mother just walks right by
and she doesn't just walk right by.
They just, they pause for a second.
Okay.
What do you want some water?
I don't know.
I don't know what it is,
but I think the women in our families,
they know when to come in front of you.
If you're watching a football game and it's tied and there's 30 seconds left
and the other team is marching towards the goal line
and they're already in the penalty.
They're in this area.
That is when your wife will just come right in front of you.
Do you want some chips?
And you do this and she'll do this.
Then you do this and she'll do this.
It's a test of your Iman
and the stability of your marriage.
Become really busy with something and you get distracted of all other things.
You don't remember anything else.
You completely drown yourself in something
with no consequence of anything besides it.
So this is actually the meaning of lahu.
Okay.
So now Fahd will talk about it a little bit later.
I'll come back to that,
but I want to give you the narration first.
So behind this surah or behind this ayah,
there's a story.
There's an event.
And for starters, I will tell you that there's a possibility,
according to some mursal narrations,
that this happened three or more times.
So it didn't happen one time.
It actually happened multiple times.
And to set the stage for this,
I'll just read through it and whatever part needs explanation,
I'll give you some more details.
Okay.
So this is from Sahih Muslim.
And then Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
كان يخطب قائم من يولجمع.
And the Fulsa, he salam, used to stand and give the khutbah on the day of Friday.
فجاءت من عيد من الشام.
من عيد من فجاءت غير من الشام.
A caravan came from Syria.
Okay.
فَانْتَقَدَ النَّاسُوا إِلَيْهَا
So people rushed towards the caravan.
So we're not getting the details yet.
All we know is the caravan came from Syria.
The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam is giving khutbah.
And people got up and they ran over to the caravan.
Now just you understand what a caravan is.
It's a bunch of camels, donkeys, horses, whatever,
with carts.
And they've got wheat, barley, fruits.
They've got clothes.
They've got jewelry.
They've got all kinds of stuff that they're going to sell.
It's like a bazaar.
Right.
And they're coming and they brought all these goods with them.
And what they usually bring with them are women that dance and sing
or children that dance and sing like a little circus.
They're going to do some fire tricks.
They're going to do some somersaults, entertainment.
They bring a whole show with them.
Right.
So they do that and they bring that in the middle of the city.
There are some places in the city in Medina that were specified for that.
And that was the time for you to go catch some good shopping.
So people went towards it until only 12 people were left.
So the Prophet says, everybody runs off, only how many?
12 people are left.
Some narrations say 11.
Some narrations say 8.
Some narrations say there's a virus.
And then there are some narrations even say 40.
There were 40 people left.
But the point is a bunch of people left.
We don't know the number.
And then the Mufassirun got into a debate who were the 12 that were left.
And then Qurtubi, for example, mentions these were the 12.
Somebody added a 13.
Somebody added a 14.
I won't go into those details because that's not what Allah focused on.
But the event itself, the major details is what we're going to focus on.
Okay.
So anyway,
So anyway,
And Jabir, radiallahu anhu says,
12 people were left.
I was among them.
That's why he's narrating it.
He's saying I was among them.
Fa'ounzilat hadihil ayah.
allatifil jumaah.
Then this ayah came, which is in surat al-jumaah.
When they see trade and they see distraction,
they rush towards it.
They run towards it and they leave you standing.
So this is related to that incident when they went off running off the jumaah.
So the guy who brings the caravan, the business guy that runs the caravan,
his name is Dihya.
Now, Dihya, you might know him from Seerah studies, some of you that may have heard his name before.
He's the person that when Jibril, alaihi salam, used to come in human form,
looked a lot like Dihya. Okay, so Dihya is kind of related to some other incidents in the Seerah too.
Anyway, so he comes, he's the one who does the business and he brings this trade caravan with him
from Syria. And, this is the important part. He came from Syria at a time of great hunger
prices. This is the important part now. So this caravan didn't just come any time,
it came at a time of great hunger and high prices according to the narration of Sahih Muslim.
Now, why is that important? It seems pretty clear that this happened after Uhud. Some people
argued that this happened after Khaybar. I would strongly disagree because of this,
because of this statement. This happened after Uhud. Let me tell you why. When the Muslims came
back from Khaybar, they became the Muslim community basically came into millions and millions and
millions in wealth. They had wealth they'd never seen before. After what incident? Khaybar. Okay.
In fact, the ayat that discussed what happens after Khaybar talk about faith and faith in Arabic
means the distribution of wealth. So much wealth that we had to now figure out how to distribute
evenly and who's it going to go to? And basically for the first time, the vaults were filled. For
the first time, we had serious amounts of money. That happened after Khaybar. Why would this not
have happened after Khaybar? Because he's coming at a time of what? Hunger and heavy and high prices.
So what does that have to do with Uhud? The people of Makkah, the Sahaba, they left basically all of
the practically all of their assets, their property, their businesses. They left them in Makkah. They
moved to Medina. So they are basically refugees. They don't have any economic benefit that they
bring to Medina other than being able to work, but they don't immediately they don't have any jobs.
Now Medina itself is not a booming economy. It's basically a farming economy and very basic economy.
So they're not very rich people and they decide that they are going to sponsor and give homes to
the people of Makkah, the Muhajirun and the ones that gave them home. Allah says about them,
They gave them preference over themselves even though they themselves were starving.
So what Allah says, means they weren't doing so well themselves. There wasn't a lot of wealth
to go around and now they're already poor to begin with and they are now sponsoring and housing and
giving hospitality to the people of Makkah. That was the situation of the Muhajirun and the Ansar.
Now even then the Ansar, they have every family has a head of household, right? So the man of
the house, if you will, the man, the father, the older sons, etc. They're the ones who work on the
farm. They're the ones who do the trade. They're the ones who go to the well and do all the heavy
work, the labor outside that makes them some money. And you should also know that swords and shields
and bow and arrow, those kinds of things were extremely, extremely expensive and you would
spend your lifetime saving to get a shield. That's why you know when you read about the story of
Badr and we didn't have, we had like this many shields. We had like 12 swords and 15 this and
five horses and you get those, I'm butchering the numbers but you get the idea. We didn't have much.
We didn't have much because those things are extremely, extremely expensive. You understand.
So the people who did have that stuff, it was kind of like their life savings that they had.
Now we go into Uhud and in Uhud, 70 Sahaba are killed and the vast majority of the companions
that are killed are actually from Medina. They're actually Madani, which means they are the heads of
households and those Sahaba that are killed, what are they wearing? Shields, whatever they have.
And what do they have in their hands? Sort, basically what they have in their hands and
they're on their bodies is the life savings of their family. Okay, so when they die and the
Mukhans come and they take everything, they take everything. So they've taken people's life savings
and they've also, the people that we've lost in Medina are the people that were the breadwinner,
the earner for the family. 70 heads of household have disappeared and 70 families' life savings
have disappeared in a city that's already struggling economically. You understand. So now what's
happened in Medina, Medina is basically going through an economic bankruptcy. Okay, the economy
is collapsing. We're in a very, very bad situation and in that bad situation, prices are high,
somebody comes in and is trying to sell some goods that are not available. They're not,
they're not producing as much as they used to produce because they don't have as many workers
anymore. You know, people are struggling and so when a caravan like this comes and now the caravan
came and I told you two things with the caravan, they will bring and we will read what they,
what they brought. I'll read this next part so it'll explain itself.
He's saying he had, they came with essential grocery items. Why would people run towards
essential grocery items unless those grocery items are no longer easily available? You understand?
So they're running towards the bread, the wheat or the rice or the barley or whatever they can
catch because that stuff is not easily available. And I also told you they brought with them, you
know, singers and circus tricks and all that other stuff. When the situation is really bad in
somebody's life, then it's a really attractive thing to distract yourself from all the stresses
in your life and just get away from it all for a little bit, right? Which is why alcohol is so
addictive, which is why drugs are so addictive, which is why video games are so addictive,
which is why social media is so addictive. A lot of times people end up on social media for hours
and hours because they're escaping a reality that they don't want to face, right? They're,
they can't deal with it. A lot of people end up at a bar drinking because they can't deal with what's
going on at home or what's going on with their life. They can't face that reality. So when the
reality becomes difficult, then human beings want to find some comfort in, you know, and some kind
of distraction, you know? If you're, if you're going through a really depressed time or you,
for example, you, you were really working hard on some exam and you failed your exam, you find
yourself watching something all night, can't sleep, distracting yourself. Because when you're
left alone to your thoughts, you have to face the reality of your failure and it's too hard to face.
So you just, let me just watch something. You watch something. Then you put your phone down,
you want to sleep again, you're like, no, let me just watch something again. This is who isn't it.
So it happens when people are in difficulty. So it's not just, oh, they saw some entertainment,
they ran towards it, put it in its context. They were going through a really tough time. And in
those kinds of times, those kinds of things become all the more attractive. They become all the more
entertaining. And you know, I used to, I used to work in a very weird neighborhood in New York
when I was in high school in 1736. It was in, it was in Queens, New York. You might know Queens
from Peter Parker and Spider-Man, but Queens is a crazy place. Queens has neighborhoods that are
entirely Greek. It has neighborhoods that are entirely Puerto Rican and neighborhoods that are
entirely Dominican. Those are two different things. And neighborhoods that are entirely Bangladeshi,
neighborhoods that are entirely Indian, neighborhoods that are entirely, like, and you walk into one
of those neighborhoods and you feel like you just walked into a different country. Each one of those
neighborhoods is like that. There's entirely Jewish neighborhoods, there's Arab neighborhoods,
Steinwitz Street is all the Arab neighborhoods, all the signs are in Arabic. Everybody talks to
you in Arabic. You want to go into a restaurant, nobody's speaking in English. It's crazy. And
then you go to some other neighborhood. Everybody's talking in Spanish, you know? So I used to, I used
to, because, you know, I don't come from like a wealthy family. Everybody in my family had a job.
So even in high school, I had a job. I used to work at a shoe store in Queens in New York
and in the Puerto Rican neighborhood, in the Spanish neighborhood, right, where everybody spoke
Spanish. And I used, because I was the guy, they look at the shoe and they say,
Do you have a size nine? And I have to go run downstairs to the warehouse, find the size nine,
come running back up, right? So sometimes I was pretty decent in Spanish, but then sometimes they
just go. And I'm like, no, I don't understand. Excuse me. Could you please repeat that? I didn't
understand. And they go, Viva San Los Estados Unidos. No entiendes español? Yes. They're like,
you live in America, you don't speak Spanish. What's wrong with you?
So, but anyway, the reason I bring that up is because the neighborhood was very poor, man.
It was a poor, people weren't doing well in those neighborhoods, right? But in those neighborhoods,
they listen to Bachata and Merengue and hip hop all day. And they are like, they'll buy a car,
they'll buy like an old car, but they're gonna like shine it up. And they're gonna put rims that
cost more than their rent on each tire. And if they bought a Honda Civic or something,
they'll put a giant sticker that says Civic on top. Everybody knows it's a Civic, bro. I'm gonna
put your name or something else, but they'll put and they'll drive extra slow. And they'll put the
back in the 90s, they'll put the bumpy on the car like, you know, roll down the street. And you
look at that, why are they so obsessed with this? And then people would come, they make, you know,
those are minimum wage jobs. I had a minimum wage job, we know what we make, barely make enough to
pay the rent and stuff. And the shoes they were selling were like back in the day, these were
like high end like, you know, Jordan's and like, you know, like expensive sneakers, right? In a poor,
poor neighborhood. And people come and they literally buy, they'll get paid on Friday. And on
Saturday, they're buying the most expensive sneakers. They're pulling their entire paycheck on a pair
of sneakers. Why though, why you're not going to live in your sneakers. But you know what,
the reality of poverty, the reality of living in a difficult life is so harsh, that when I look at
these expensive sneakers, I get to feel like I have something of value. I have value, because
everything around my life has no value. I can't afford a nice place. I can't afford, you know,
a decent apartment. I have to live with eight of my cousins or whatever. But my car, the rims it got,
man, it's like you live out of your car. It becomes an extension of yourselves. And by the way, even
if you get really nice rims, you can't look at them, you're driving. It's for other people to look at.
The perception of me will be I'm doing well. Or I have some kind of status or position or prestige.
And this is in a poor neighborhood. By the way, people in higher society, they have their own
problems. They have their own way of showing prestige and distracting themselves from what's
really going on in their life. So people will say, oh, I have, I'm going through a lot of
depression, I need to go shopping. Life is really hard. I need a new Chanel bag.
Right. So they'll do that because this is also, this is also level and distraction. Anyway, so
and then the people needed these essentials. And he would do the duffel, like the drum beat,
and the, you know, the hand drums and stuff, the table so that people would know that he's arrived.
The by the way, I didn't read that part. This is a location in Medina where the market used to be
held. That's called a jazizate.
And they were in the
So another narration now mentioned in the
Qutni.
At the time the Prophet was giving us a khumba on the day of Friday,
when the caravan, all of a sudden the caravan showed up.
It was carrying food and it just, it landed at another location. So it seems from the narration,
one time it comes to a jazizate, another time it comes to a location called
and we will be called a
And so that it sets up in different places from this and other evidences people derive that this
happened multiple times on multiple Fridays, the, you know, the bazaar came and set up. Okay.
This is important. So
in his
means there's some break in the chain. So it's not coming directly a narrative to be
narrated to see there's some break in the chain. Okay. But regardless, this narration seems to be
a really good explanation of what happened. So he's mentioning it despite that he says,
why would they allow themselves to leave listening to the Khutbah because of that?
And everybody knows that the Sahaba and the status that they have, it seems that given the way
they are and the character and the morals and the manners that they have, they wouldn't have done that.
So why would they do that?
So he's going to explain that through a narration. Okay.
So this is these were the names, but anyway.
This is pretty cool. In the beginning, when, when Jumu'ah first came,
the Prophet, peace be upon him, used to pray to Raka and then give the Khutbah just like we do in Eid.
Before the Turaqa used to be first and the Khutbah used to be second. Okay.
Then,
and just like it was, there was the day of Friday and the Prophet, peace be upon him, was giving the
Khutbah and he had already led the Jumu'ah prayer. The prayer was already done and now he was giving
the speech. Okay.
Okay.
And said, by the way, Dihya is here. He brought a caravan. The caravan is here, guys.
Somebody walked in and just kind of announced it.
And when Dihya came, his people came with doves and drums.
People left because they didn't think that leaving the speech of the Prophet,
peace be upon him, has any harm on the prayer. So the Prophet's giving a talk, but it's not
mandatory attendance. It's just, you know, like if you're sitting listening to a lecture,
you got a phone call and you walked out. I wouldn't be like, where you going?
What you going on with? Because it's not part of the thing. Right. So they didn't think it was
part of the prayer, which is why they walked away. Okay. So,
meaning Allah could have revealed beforehand, don't leave the Khutbah. He allowed this to happen
and then he revealed it because he wanted the Sahaba to experience this, this incident,
where so many of them thought it's harmless. Yeah, we'll just go get some things for our family.
No problem.
The switch happened after the coming of this ayah. Okay.
And he delayed the prayer.
So the next Friday and the Friday after that and the Friday after that.
And then after that, no one would leave.
If there no started bleeding or anything that happened,
somebody no started bleeding and they're still, I'm not moving.
Allah gave the ayah, they walked away. I ain't walking away.
Okay. Oh, no matter what happened,
until they would ask the Prophet's license permission, how are they going to ask permission?
They would have to interrupt the Khutbah.
So he says,
meaning the finger that is next to the thumb, meaning your index finger,
somebody who had to leave would be like that to the Prophet's.
Which means, yeah, so long my nose is bleeding.
I think I need to go, you know, or I think I broke my pinky or something.
They raised their hand and they just raised their finger like this.
And the Prophet's would say,
indicate with his hand and he can go and that became the adab of the Khutbah.
Like if you were going to get up and go, you can't just walk away.
You would just like indicate to the Prophet quietly and the Prophet's license would give you just
a gesture by your hand. It's okay. And then you could walk out.
Right. So like immediately how it transformed the culture of the Sahaba
and their collective culture, they became just these people of adab.
So among the hypocrites, there were those for whom the Khutbah was really hard to listen to.
Like they didn't want to hear the Khutbah, the hypocrites.
Well, you lose of the Masjid and sitting in the Masjid.
Why I got to sit here? And this be over already?
You know, Wakana, that's by the way, the Khutbahs of the Prophet's was
whatever we have, whatever records we have of any Khutbahs he's given,
those of you that are interested in Arabic, there's a book called Khutbah Rasul,
sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
It's a nice collection of whatever Khutbahs we do have.
Not all of them are Khutbahs or Jumu'ah. Some of them are just public speeches.
But if you actually take a survey of them, they don't last more than two to three minutes.
They're not long speeches at all.
They're just very short speeches, unless the records are just on the summary of what he spoke.
It could be the case too, because the narrations aren't a transcript of his speech.
Somebody's remembering the key points of his speech. It could be like that too, right?
So, but they don't seem like they're very long speeches at all.
Anyway, Wakana is a, is a, that al-Rajulun, middle Muslimin.
So, when a, when a, one of the Muslims would just kind of raise their finger for what purpose?
To get permission?
And then,
and he would kind of walk right next to him, hiding himself with him until he could get out too.
Sounds like those kids in school that like kind of duck and they leave with the other kid.
So,
Allah revealed also, Allah knows the people that slip out behind an excuse.
Allah knows those people too.
Right? So, that's mentioned in Surat al-Nur.
Uh,
is
and it makes it, he feels compelled to believe it because it retains the integrity of the Sahaba.
Radiallahu anhum ajbahim.
Okay.
So, it has reached us, they did this three different times.
Every time it would come from Syria, ah those Syrians.
And then it would, every time it would be right at the time of Friday prayer.
And now it's as if Allah is saying, because he said,
trade and distraction, trade or distraction, those are two separate things.
But one way to interpret it is, as if them looking at that trade opportunity and going to it,
amounts to nothing more than distraction compared to what they were leaving.
So actually, an alternative term for trade was used as distraction.
And it would have been at any other time, there would have been no sin in doing so.
The fact that you were walking away from the Prophet makes this a big deal.
Sorry, this is why it became a big deal.
And that's why the ayah was revealed.
Okay. Now, um, this is just a little bit of a poem, very famous among Arabs.
I'll read it to you.
So the word mal, anyone know what mal means?
Mal means money, but mala, the verb means to incline, to incline.
So it's a play on words.
So you hear mal mal over and over?
It's using both meanings.
It says, I see people who incline towards someone who has money.
And whoever doesn't have money, people don't move towards them.
They move away from him.
What I told Nas, what I told Nas, I got the habit, the habit in Arabic means to go.
But the hub also means gold.
The hubbun means rot.
So, so, but why does the hub and the hub have the same spelling?
It's actually because the Arab philosophy is gold doesn't stay with you.
It goes, somebody gonna kill you or you're gonna die and somebody else gonna take it.
You can't keep it.
It's gonna go.
Interestingly, fadbha in Arabic, fadbha means to break apart and leave.
Fadbha.
And fadbha is silver.
Similar idea.
You can have the silver, but it's gonna break apart and leave.
You're not gonna keep the wealth.
It's gonna go.
Okay.
So fadbha and fadbha, zahaba and zahab, right?
I read to Nas, I saw people, they go, ilaman ndahu zahabu, they go towards someone who has gold.
They do zahab to someone who has zahab.
And whoever doesn't have zahab, well, people zahab from him.
I see that people break off and run ilaman ndahu fidda.
They go towards someone who has silver.
And someone who doesn't have fidda.
Fa'an hunnasumun fadda and people then break away from him.
You don't have many people break away from you.
It's like, you know, some of you guys, you live in, you know, Europe and then you go back home
for vacation or a wedding or aqiqa or your mom's forcing you to marry someone, whatever,
whatever your situation is.
But when you go back, everybody looks at you like, you just came from, you just, you were,
you had climbed up one of the trees of Jannah and you came and you probably have some leaves
of Jannah in your pocket.
So they come to you like, so you got a lot of money, right?
They're always like, let's hang out with them or they're going to take us to the expensive
restaurant. I wonder what, and when you're unpacking your suitcase to take out your smelly clothes,
they think that you have a treasure chest of giveaways for the village.
So they come towards you because you come from the land of the hub and fidda.
Right? And then if you decide you're going to move back and you're not, you know,
you're not going to live in Germany or Canada or Australia or the U.S.
or you're just, then people are like, no, I'm going to, I'm going to zap from you because
you're no longer zap bro. Then your zap days are over. The golden days are gone.
Right? So anyway, the, but the idea is that, you know, trade and money is in fact attractive.
Now let's get to the actual, the heart of the matter. I've read the narration to you,
but the main lessons I want to discuss with you in regards to this ayah.
Assalamu alaikum everyone. There are almost 50,000 students around the world
that are interested on top of the students we have in studying the Quran and its meanings
and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends. And they need sponsorships,
which is not very expensive. So if you can help sponsor students on Bayanah TV,
please do so and visit our sponsorship page. I appreciate it so much and pray that Allah gives
our mission success and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran and the beauty of it,
the world over.
