What does Allah say is an ayah in the Quran? History is an ayah. The mountain is an ayah.
The sky is an ayah. The animal is an ayah. My body is an ayah. What's going on inside
my chest is an ayah. All lived experience is a set of what? Ayat. And each one of them
becomes valuable because they are ayat of the king. Allah is so powerful he doesn't have to become
visible in how he exerts his power. Lotiful limayasha. He's subtle in how he does things,
delicate in how he does things, nearly unnoticed in how he does things. You know? And some things
is very obvious and some things is very delicate and invisible and that's actually one of the great
manifestations of the might of Allah Azza wa Jad. Now monuments and wealth. You know Allah says
about himself, Allah says,
We wanted to show Ibrahim A.S. the symbols of Allah's kingdom. Show him the signs of Allah's kingdom.
Allah asks the question to the disbelievers,
Do they have any signs of their empire? I'd like to see what portion of the empire do they have?
What control do they have? And if they had something they wouldn't give it to anybody else.
I was also thinking about how symbols of kingdoms are really important. You remember the story of
Yusuf A.S. when the cup was taken? Why was the cup important? It could have been any cup like
from a water cooler. It wouldn't have been a problem. It was the king's cup.
Because now that represents something very high value because it's associated with the kingdom.
So you know why this is an important thing for Quran students? The cup is a symbol of the kingdom
which is what gives it a lot of value, isn't it? Now that means the word for symbol in Arabic is
Aya. I'll say that again. The word for symbol is what? Aya. So it has value because it's an
Aya of the kingdom. What does Allah say is an Aya in the Quran? History is an Aya. The mountain is an
Aya. The sky is an Aya. The animal is an Aya. My body is an Aya. What's going on inside my chest is an
Aya. All lived experience is a set of what? Ayaat. And each one of them becomes valuable
because they are Ayaat of the king. So there are two kinds of Ayaats in the Quran. There are Ayaat
all around us and there are Ayaat of his revelation. But they both go, they are valuable because they
are Ayaat of the king. Just like the king of the cup of the king and the surah. Allah says
If you owned the treasures of Allah's Rahma, if you had any authority over them, you would have held
them back. Meaning Allah's kingdom is so vast. You know when you see a prosperous kingdom,
everybody's living well. You know some nations in the world are so wealthy that they just give money
to just everybody. Just wealth upon wealth. Nobody's poor and everybody's living large
because the kingdom has just too much to give. They just give and give and give. Some small
nations in the world that have massive natural resources and things like that. They do that.
So the idea is a kingdom that has the ability to give is more generous and just in the way that Allah
provides it is to all of his creation is a manifestation of Allah's kingdom. Okay.
It's also interesting again symbols of kingdom. I'm highlighting this because it's one of the most
important things that tell us about a kingdom. Allah even mentions a woman who was a queen.
Who was that? Sabah, you know Shiva. What does he say about her?
Inni wajattu imraatan tamlikuhum. I found a woman that rules over them. You know and what did he
say about her? He said wa utiyat bin kulli shay'in walaha ashun'a'zim. She has all kinds of things
and she has a great throne. What was the symbol of her kingdom? So you notice a theme now in the
Quran when Allah mentions kingdom. One of the things you notice about kingdoms are its symbols,
the marks of that kingdom. Okay. The right to rule. Who is the rightful king? In the story of
Talut and Jalut, the Israelites came to their prophet and said we need a king because we need to fight
in the path of Allah. Who will be the rightful king? Their prophet told them
The sign of him being the legitimate king is this cart will come back. That's a long story but
it's a really fun story actually in Jewish history that Allah refers to in the Quran because
the Quran is actually very full of Jewish history. There's lots of accounts of Jewish history in the
Quran and there's a lot of interplay between the Old Testament and the Quran. Right. So but anyway,
I won't go there but I will tell you one thing about Allah SWT. I told you kings
all often have to claim why they are the rightful king and they have to be declared the rightful
king and there has to be some kind of inauguration ceremony that makes it official that this is the
rightful king. You understand? And if that doesn't happen then they haven't earned their right to the
throne or if somebody challenges their right to the throne. Is there anyone that's going to
challenge Allah's right to his absh? Allah says,
How great, how high Allah is the rightful king. Meaning originally Allah has the ultimate right
of kingdom. He didn't get it from somewhere and no one can take it from him. That is originally his.
Then of course another piece of his important symbolism that has to do with kingship
is the history of a kingdom. Like for example, a great empire always talks about its monuments
and what they did in the past and their victories and their great ancestors and all that kind of
stuff. Allah says we had given them great empire. This idea of reference to going back. Every nation
teaches their children about its history. The empire must teach about the history because they
have to know what greatness they came from, what they belong to. And of course every nation tries to
tell their children and their next generations a soft version of their history. A stronger version
even if they have bad chapters in their history or embarrassing moments in their history or losses
in their history. They'll try to cover that part and highlight the juicy good parts in their history.
So you get the history you learn in school. It doesn't matter which country you come from.
The history you learn from in school is different from actual history because it's more propaganda
than history, actual, right? But history is a really important part of understanding kingdom.
Of course, has Allah in the Quran described the history of his kingdom? He has actually
from the very beginning. How he created the skies and the earth. How he brought Adam
alayhi salam to this world and how he has ruled over humanity from the beginning.
And it's centralized power. A kingdom cannot be considered a kingdom if power isn't centralized.
And of course Allah mentions biyadihi malakutukundi shayt. In his hand alone is the kingdom of everything.
It's ability to protect those in its realm. I love this ayah. Actually this is all one ayah.
How can you be a kingdom if you can't protect your people? You can't. Well, who are you Jeeb?
He's the one who offers protection. And then how can you protect your people? Not only should you
be able to protect your people, when you go after the enemy, the enemy cannot protect themselves.
And when this kingdom attacks, nobody can fight back. They can't withstand.
The ability to put down rebellion. Like you know in the case of Dhul-Qarnayn who was a king.
In his story, Allah Azza wa Jalla mentions that when he saw people that he was going to rule,
he said whoever does wrong, we're going to punish them. We're going to deal with them.
Allah himself then describes himself how he deals with rebellions.
Do they own the kingdom of the skies and the earth and whatever's in between?
Are they going to try to climb up through the ranks of the skies?
How many armies have there been that I've already annihilated of people who thought that they can
compete with me? Like Allah has put down rebellions in history before. We call them ruins of ancient
nations. That's Allah putting down rebellions. The ability to take care of its subjects like
You know the ayah?
Every day, everybody's asking him for something.
You know the king used to have a court and people used to walk in, oh great king, I haven't had
a chicken sandwich for five days, please give me a chicken sandwich. And they would come and beg
the king and the king would give them this land and give them this chicken sandwich or whatever you
give them. You know people come and beg the king and the king gives and then the king is running out
of money. He's running out the budget is bad. Now the king is not giving, the king is taking. He's like
oh collect tax, we already collect the tax, collect tax again. This you know change the season,
collect the tax again, take more from the people. So actually people think the king is the one that
gives, in this world the king does mostly what? Taking. The king does more taking than giving.
My heart is begging him for the next beat. My eyes are begging him for the next moment of moisture
in the eyes so they don't dry out. My veins are begging him to remain you know to keep blood
coursing through them. Every cell is begging him. Every every atom is begging him for its existence
constantly begging across all of existence and every day he's responding to those needs.
So this is the ability of him to take care of his subjects but of course a kingdom is known by its laws.
Any empire, any government is known by its unique laws. Like I don't get enough of mentioning this
example because I'm traumatized by the example. I went to Singapore one time and Singapore is
a really interesting country. You can't chew gum in Singapore on the street. You get arrested.
Yeah, can't chew gum. Don't do it up, don't do it. Just don't do it. Okay.
Anyway so what happened was it was summer, it was very moist so I had some bug spray. You know the
bug spray? I had a little bit of bug spray with me and a cream and when we landed the plane in
Singapore you know the flight attendant that says you can take your seatbelt off blah blah blah.
And welcome to Singapore. If you are found in possession of any illegal drugs you will be given
the death penalty. Enjoy your stay in Singapore. I took my bug spray. One of my employees was working
with me. I was like you carry this. A kingdom is known by its what? Laws. A government is known by
its laws. It's unique laws. Right? Does Allah also give us laws? Yeah. And a king like even the story
of kingdoms in the Quran like Yusuf A.S. wanted to he was a minister but he wasn't the king.
He wasn't the king so he wanted to keep his brother but his brother didn't have the proper paperwork.
He didn't have a visa for the kingdom. He didn't he didn't have any citizenship or anything. He was
actually a he was visitor visa you know refugee status so he couldn't keep him so he had to come
up with a way of getting him arrested and Allah says there was no way for him to keep him in the law
of the king because according to the law he couldn't keep his brother right and but the law is not
being made by Yusuf A.S. The law is being made by who? The king. That's the higher authority.
Kings also engage in war. Kingdoms engage in war and when they engage in war
Sheba makes a commentary about kings and what they do. She says
when kings come into a town they violate that town
and they take the noble people of that town and humiliate them.
They do that. In fact they engage in oppression basically. Allah the king of kings he also does
war but he never goes after anyone who is not what?
He's never the only people.
Is anyone going to be destroyed except the wrongdoers? Except the criminals?
No one but the criminals. When kings take over do only criminals get killed or civilians
stand by innocent people? Everybody gets killed. In fact if you were loyal to the previous government
you get killed. As-sulullah A.S. takes over Makkah. What's the policy? Kill everyone?
Kill all the people who fought you at Badr? If you meet someone who met you in battle before
take their head off? Is that the policy? No. I will say to you what my brother Yusuf said to his
brother. That the thiriba aleikum wa-l-yawm no harm will come on you today.
Allah is a different kind of king and he sends his messengers to execute Allah's style of kingdom.
Not the style of kingdom that happens in the earth but a heavenly kingdom.
Okay. Anyway so I'm gonna have to stop here. There's so much to do but I will leave you with
one juicy thing because I can do the juicy stuff. The next name of Allah we're gonna study is what?
Al-Quddus. Al-Quddus has two layers of study. The two layers of study are what does the word
mean in Arabic and how is it used in the Arabic language and how is it used in the Quran? So Arabic
and the Quran that's one layer of study but the other layer of study is actually this word is very
important in Biblical studies. So in the study of the Bible in the Hebrew Bible this word is really
really important and we're gonna have to look at why it was important to them also. Why is it important
to study that or know that because the Quran is actually speaking to multiple audiences and one
of its audiences is actually Jewish scholarship. But you may not know that now you know. One of the
direct audiences of the Quran is who? Not just the regular Jews even. Jewish scholarship. It was
actually communicating with them directly and a lot of the language in the Quran we understand it
from the Muslim perspective but when they heard it they heard it from a background they already had.
You understand? So if we understand the background that they had and then hear what the Quran is
saying it gives us deeper perspective on what's being said. But since we talked about politics
today I will leave you with the following concept. In kingdoms in the world there have there's always
been this idea that when a king takes power that he must have done something wrong to make that happen.
He must have killed somebody. He must have bribed. There's some corruption behind the scenes because
you don't move up unless you get your hands dirty. You have to have some blood on your hands to get
there right? Either you came and you you know you know assassinated the the the current king
and you took power that way you seized power or you tried to climb up the ranks by way of
treachery and lying and cheating and scheming basically politics right? And that's how you
made it all the way to becoming kings. Scheming, scheming, scheming until you get to the top.
So when you think of people with power you think of corruption. It's been the history of the world
right? So power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely right? That's always been the
history of the world. So what and kings know that, rulers know that. So what they do then is they say
well we don't we can't keep our power if everybody thinks we're corrupt because eventually people
will rebel. They're not going to stay under our government. We have to find a way of making ourselves
look good no matter how dirty we are. So kings since ancient times came up with a formula.
We are going to use religion to make ourselves look good. So in ancient Egypt they're going to
have the priests and the the monks and the sages. They're going to say the gods have told us this
is the king. And since the people follow the religion now it's their religious obligation to
acknowledge the king. The Roman Empire once it adopts Christianity the Catholic Church is going
to endorse the king. The pope has an awkward conversation at the inaugural ceremony that you
may have seen the United Kingdom recently. Who's becoming loyal to who? It's a little confusing.
But the idea is this is a kingdom that is endorsed by God himself through the church or through the
priesthood or through the temple. This happened in ancient Indian kingdoms, Buddhist kingdoms,
the Chinese emperors. They'll have some sages or somebody that acknowledges them endorses them
because they get the religious people that follow the religious leadership. When the religious
leadership endorses the king then it becomes the religious thing to do to follow the king. And then
in many of these kingdoms they have prayers for the ruler. They'll pray for the rule. You know
God saved the queen, God saved the king. Right? They'll have those kinds of things. So what happens
is there's the world of politics and there's the world of religion and the religious people they're
considered holy. They're considered, I'll say that again, they're considered what? Holy. And the word
for holy people is mukaddas. The word is what? Mukaddas. So kingdoms stay stable because they
use the mukaddas class to declare themselves pure because they themselves are corrupt. They need
the mukaddas class to become legitimate. You understand? And these mukaddas class, these sacred
people, these holy people, these saints, these people, they're actually also behind the scenes,
what did they say? Hey, we're going to endorse you but we're going to need a sizable donation,
vis-a-bili, you know vis-a-bili us. You understand? Behind the scenes it's a backdoor deal. So actually
it's not just one is corrupt. The truth is what? Both of them are corrupt. What is this Sura going
to do? It's actually going to highlight the corruption on the mukaddas side. It's going to do that too.
But what is Allah telling us by these two names together? Al-Malik, Al-Quddus, Allah is the ultimate
king. Human beings when they think of a king, they think of someone who is dirty, corrupt. And then
they need to be cleansed by some other religious entity. And Allah says no, Allah is ultimate king
and Allah is ultimately pure all in one. And what did that teach the Muslims in their
understanding of the world? It taught them that in this religion, it's not that is a different world
and this is a different world. This is these people, these mukaddas people, these holy people,
they stay inside the monastery, they worship and pray, they think about God and the angels and
heaven and hell but they don't know what's happening in the real world. They don't know matters of
government, they just know matters of God. That's the mukaddas class. And then the kings know the
matters of politics and what's really happening in the world. So these are the pure people and these
are the people of the samawat and these are the people of the earth. You see?
You sabbihu lillahi, wa fith samawati, wa fith al-al-lil, al-malik, al-Quddus. It's incredible.
Like how everything is tying together now and Allah is teaching us actually in this religion
to become holier, to become pure. It doesn't mean you don't know what's happening in the real world
and just because you're engaged in politics and the real world doesn't mean you have to become dirty.
Both of those things coexist because our God is both al-malik and al-Quddus all in one.
You know this idea, leave to God, what is to God, leave to Caesar, what is to Caesar?
Allah is al-malik and al-Quddus, you see? So it's these few words, they're so profound in the
social philosophy, the political philosophy, the outlook that it creates and it makes
sophisticated believers. Now these people are revolutionary. Every religion before this
basically used religion as a tool to advance power. The holy right, the divine right of kings
and the Quran comes along and says, no, purity only belongs to Allah and absolute rule only belongs
to Allah. Everyone besides him is going to be imperfect. Everyone is going to be imperfect,
subhanAllah, al-malik, al-Quddus. I hope you guys enjoyed that video clip. My team and I have been
working tirelessly to try to create as many resources for Muslims to give them first steps
in understanding the Quran all the way to the point where they can have a deep,
profound understanding of the Quran. We are students of the Quran ourselves and we want
you to be students of the Quran alongside us. Join us for this journey on bayanatv.com where
thousands of hours of work have already been put in and don't be intimidated, it's step by step by
step so you can make learning the Quran a part of your lifestyle. There's lots of stuff available
on YouTube but it's all over the place. If you want an organized approach to studying the Quran
beginning to end for yourself, your kids, your family and even among peers, that would be the
way to go. Sign up for bayanatv.com
