But then comes a much more difficult question.
If creation is imperfect, by the way, am I perfect?
No, are you perfect? No.
Is anything in the world perfect actually?
No, the only one who's perfect is who?
Is Allah. So now here's the problem, here's the philosophical problem.
The problem is, if I see a beautiful painting, I say the artist is creative.
But then how can I see something imperfect and then say the maker is...
Perfect.
How can I see that it's perfect?
Because we're saying everything declares how perfect Allah is.
But everything itself is not perfect.
So how is it in evidence that the maker of it is perfect?
And so it's hinting at the future.
There's another subtle in the surahs where the tasbih is mentioned in the future tense.
Something in this surah is coming that's going to tie into the future.
Because the tasbih is also mentioned in the future.
So we're going to keep an eye open for that when we study surat al-Jumrah
because the tasbih is hinting towards the future.
Right? So we'll see how that manifests itself.
Now, let's talk a little bit more about how is everything doing tasbih.
I've given you the basic overview of that.
Mufasirun talked about Haqiqa in the Sanu Al-Hal.
What does that mean?
How can you say the atheist is doing tasbih?
How can you say that mushrik is doing tasbih?
They're not doing tasbih.
How can you say the shayatina are doing tasbih?
They're not doing tasbih.
How can the Quran say whatever's in the skies and whatever's in the earth is doing tasbih
and will continue to do tasbih when the contradiction to that exists?
For everyone, for you know, believers have always been the minority.
Disbelievers have always been the majority.
They do the anti-tasbih.
So what does this mean?
Allah is here referring to the Sa'ad Al-Hal.
The Sa'ad Al-Hal means the way that something is.
So let me put that in the simplest way for you.
If you see a beautiful painting, doesn't it speak or declare the creativity of the artist?
Right?
If you see a marvel of engineering, isn't that a statement about their company that made it?
Right?
So your work speaks for you.
You understand that, right?
Your work speaks for you.
The amazing building speaks for the architect.
Right?
An amazing railroad system or highway system speaks of the government that put it together
or the engineers that put it together.
Right?
Your, your, if you cook the delicious meal, it speaks of your culinary skill.
Everything Allah created speaks of his perfection.
By, you understand that analogy?
It speaks.
That's called the Sa'ad Al-Hal.
But then comes a much more difficult question.
If creation is imperfect, by the way, am I perfect?
No.
Are you perfect?
No.
Is anything in the world perfect actually?
No.
The only one who's perfect is who?
Is Allah.
So now here's the, here's the problem.
It's the philosophical problem.
The problem is if I see a beautiful painting, I say the artist is creative.
But then how can I see something imperfect and then say the maker is perfect?
How can it's, how can I say that it's perfect?
Cause we're saying everything declares how perfect Allah is, but everything itself is not perfect.
So how, how is it in evidence that the maker of it is perfect?
This is, this is by the way, a very common atheist argument.
Oh, your God is so perfect.
Hmm.
What about cockroaches?
What about a rash on your skin?
What about my cousin?
Like a God is so perfect.
The point is actually the, the, the, I was created to live, grow and then die to have a life cycle and change by definition.
Change actually means imperfection.
If something doesn't, the only thing that doesn't need to change is something that's already perfect.
If you need to make any changes to it, that means it's not already what?
Perfect.
Allah designed this universe, everything in it.
And one thing that's constant in this universe is what?
Change.
Movement is changes in it.
The subatomic particles moving inside every, every atom are moving, which means their position is what?
Changing.
Motion is change.
Energy is change.
All of science is the study of change.
Every science is the study of change.
History is the study of change.
Actually, that's all we study is change.
Life itself, life is defined by change and a cell changes.
Right?
Allah designed things to change, but change for a purpose.
The change itself is imperfect, but the purpose is perfect.
It's not the fact that things are perfect.
It's that they were made for a perfect reason.
I've, I was perfectly created to be born at this day of this mother in this family in this situation for these years.
Meet with these people.
The plan for all of it is what?
Perfect.
It's perfect.
In fact, that's actually the Tasbih.
Everything is being done according to a plan.
It's the plan of Allah for everything that's actually perfect.
And that's the Tasbih of Allah that whatever's in the skies is doing and whatever's in the earth is doing.
Washam sutajri limustaqarrella.
The sun moves according to an exact schedule and calculation.
Why is Allah giving us that analogy?
If you realize the sun is so precise, then you will realize everything Allah does is extremely what?
Precise.
But some things, the precision is easy for you to see.
Other things, you can't see the precision, so you call it chaos.
When human beings cannot understand a pattern, they call it chaos.
Right?
And so they say, oh, the universe is in chaos.
Well, Allah says, no, it's in order.
You just don't have the algorithm figured out.
It's a little more advanced for you.
So you call it chaos, but actually it's much bigger than you.
It's in the grave.
Okay.
Then there's the perfection of the argument of beauty.
That's a I've talked about in Sultana Hadid.
So I don't want to spend too much time on it here because we have so many other things to talk about, but I'll tell you briefly.
Human beings are not created like squirrels or cats or camels or anything else.
We don't just survive as a species.
This is not even a religious conversation.
This is common sense across the world.
Doesn't matter what religion somebody comes from.
Human beings pursue more than just survival.
Isn't that true?
I mean, people want to listen to more and more beautiful music or they want to design more and more beautiful clothes or taste more and more delicious food.
Or design more and more beautiful homes.
What is the common element between all of these things?
For every one of our senses, we want to pursue more and more beauty.
Isn't it?
In fact, even abstract beauty, people, even if it's not physical beauty, you just want to listen to some remarkable poetry or some amazing story, which is abstract beauty.
It's just in your mind.
But you want to hear it.
You want to experience it.
Human beings pursue beauty.
Do camels pursue beauty?
Do squirrels or cockroaches or ants or fish pursue beauty?
No.
Human beings pursue beauty in everything they do.
And then we keep pursuing this thing called perfection.
We're perfectionists.
We want something more and even perfectionists even down to like, if you're just a gamer sitting there playing whatever, what are you playing nowadays?
Last time it was Roblox.
Call of Duty.
Okay, fine.
Be old school.
That's fine.
If you're playing a video game, you know, if you're a real gamer, you got to win every medal, finish 100% of the game, do the entire, like get every upgrade.
Do all of it because you have this insatiable desire to attain perfection, to get to the most beautiful.
Where do you think that thirst came from to get more and more and more or an athlete that wants to beat his own record or keep pushing, keep pushing, keep pushing?
Because we were originally in the company of Allah who is perfect and the most beautiful and Allah put in us because of that company, the desire for more and more and more.
Beautiful.
And so, Arthas B is actually different than that this be have everything else.
Allah made Arthas B even more beautiful.
Isn't just that even the this be of perfection or purpose, it's that this be have the pursuit of beauty.
We human beings do that more than any other creature or unlike any other creature.
Then of course, I won't break this surprise yet, but this be in this Surah is going to have a special purpose.
We'll discover that as we explore this Surah, inshaAllah.
Just about this, I also, Allah mentioned the skies.
Do this be first?
Whatever's in the skies.
Does this be and whatever's in the earth?
Does this be?
Why are the skies mentioned first?
Well, they came first.
So it makes chronological sense.
They do a lot better to speak than us because angels, they flood the sky.
They do a lot better to speak than we do.
And there's a lot more to the skies than there is to the earth quantitatively.
It's much, much more.
So the greater this be has the skies and then we get to the earth.
The word ma is also really cool.
I keep translating it as whatever's in the skies and whatever's in the earth.
The word whatever creates, I wrote the Arabic word here at Ibrahim.
Ibrahim means ambiguity.
Is that specific?
Is that specific?
And that means the way that this be happens is that specific and who's doing this be?
Has that been specified?
And you don't know someone who is rebelling against the law today might be doing to speak of Allah tomorrow.
You don't know.
You know, the Omar bin Al-Khattab that we knew before Islam and the Omar bin Al-Khattab we know after Islam
may be five minutes apart from each other.
Before lack of this be after a person of this be, right?
And then I wrote an Arabic comment here,
Taqdimul Jadr al-Major al-A'l-Fa'il, which actually means that it is only to Allah that everything does this be.
Nothing else deserves it.
Nothing else is that perfect.
What did you learn about this be so far?
The image, the image I want you to keep in your head, the swimmer that doesn't what?
That doesn't submerge.
That's the image.
Allah says,
sabbih, sabbih, bismi rabbika al-alim.
So Allah says make the names of Allah do tasbih with the name of Allah.
I want you to understand that concept in a simple formula.
We're going to see that soon.
One of Allah's names is al-malik.
What does al-malik mean?
Anybody?
Good.
The king.
If you talk to anybody and say the king,
are they immediately going to think of Allah or going to think of someone else?
Someone else.
The Arabs of Arabia, when they heard king,
is the first thought Allah or is the first thought someone else?
Someone else.
The holy.
The holy.
Al-Quddus, the holy.
There were holy people.
There were holy saints.
There were holy priests.
There were holy institutions.
When you hear the word al-Quddus,
the first thing that comes in somebody's mind is Allah or someone else?
Someone else.
When you say al-Azeez, the authority,
the authority can also mean the minister, the governor.
Allah or someone else?
Someone else?
Al-Hakim, the wise.
When you say the wise one,
the average human being in the world, you say,
I met, I heard the wise one.
I was reading, I met, you know, or I got to know the wise one.
Are they thinking about Allah?
Who's it? Must have met some old man.
Must have met some author.
You understand?
These words, the mind goes to someone other than Allah immediately.
You understand that, right?
Allah chose words and Allah knows language better than we do.
Allah is the creator of language.
Allah chose words that take the mind to someone other than Allah.
And that's part of the formula.
Now I actually have to think about the king and the con,
what's behind king?
Kingdom.
The concept of kingdom.
What's behind the holy, the concept of holiness and purity?
What's behind the authority, the concept of power and authority?
What's behind the wise, the concept of wisdom?
I have to think about these concepts and how human beings show these concepts.
And then I have to remove all the imperfections that human beings have per concept.
And once I remove all of them, the name will have Tasbih.
Now it's ready for Allah.
You understand?
So actually the words as we hear them are imperfect.
They're imperfect.
Now we have to do the exercise of cleaning them.
And what's the exercise of cleaning them called?
Tasbih.
That's the exercise.
So when Allah says,
يُسبِّعُ للهِ مَا فِي السَّمَوَاتِ وَمَا فِي الْأَرْضِ المَلِّكِ الْقُدُّوسِ الْعَزِيزِ الْحَكِيمِ
we're gonna try to do Tasbih of each one of these names.
Because that's what's being demanded of us.
You understand?
And that's how Tasbih works.
It's a really beautiful exercise.
It's a mental exercise and even a spiritual exercise that we're going to engage in.
So we can appreciate something really awesome about this opening ayah.
بارك الله وليكم السلام عليكم ورحمة الله تعالى ورحمة الله وبركاته.
One time I was giving a khutbah.
This guy got a phone call.
First row.
Okay, if you're gonna pick up your phone, at least be in the back row.
He's in the first row.
Hello, is everything okay?
Yeah.
How's uncle?
Uncle's good.
Yeah, over and out.
So I got a khutbah.
The guy that starts doing this and I was like in the middle of the khutbah, I was like,
I just stopped my khutbah.
I was like, this is a really interesting conversation.
Let me just finish.
So he took a full 90 seconds, finished this conversation.
I was like, is uncle okay?
He goes, yeah, it's okay.
I was like, okay.
I got a khutbah.
