Allah put inside the male something. He put inside the male the desire to look at beauty.
I don't have to convince you of this, you already know.
You're like somebody's like, I don't know what you're talking about. Yes, you do.
He put inside the male the desire to look at beauty. He put inside the female the desire to look beautiful.
He put it in her from the early ages. Allah put that in her fitrah.
I want to say this in the form of a word and share that subscription with friends and family and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
Peace be upon the Messenger of Allah and his family and his companions. Peace be upon you.
Wrapping up our discussion on ayat number six. I'm going to read something from I believe this is Ibn Ashur Rahman Allah.
That is because believers are supposed to be between hope and fear from Allah.
So we don't wish for death because we are between hope and fear from Allah.
They do not assume and live with the assumption that success is guaranteed for them as these people assumed.
Now we get to the next ayat. By the way, all three ayats are going to be about death and we get this kind of philosophy on death also.
They will never wish for it because now the translation says because of what their hands are holding.
That's the literal translation because of what their hands put forward.
Now the first thing I want to share with you is disclaimers.
In the previous ayat, the disclaimer was if you feel you are saved as opposed to everyone else, that was the qualifier.
Or if you are Allah's friends as opposed to everyone else.
We should want to be friends with Allah but the Muslim will not think as opposed to everyone else because Allah already told us,
other people are going to join. Allah already told us if you step back Allah will replace you with other people.
So we don't have this absolute guarantee that it's us and no one else can ever take our place.
We don't have that mentality because Allah didn't let us have that mentality in His revelation.
Now in this next ayat Allah doesn't just say they're never going to wish for death but Allah says why will some of them never wish for death?
Why is it that they won't wish? Allah gives the reason Himself.
He says,
And now before I explain what that means, just something about the ba in Bima Qadamat-e-Adihim.
Saba-biyatun, buta-alliqatun, Bima yadullu aalayhin nafi, aya-bawnat-at-tamanni, Bisaba Bima Qadamat.
What that means is literally because the word ba would mean because.
In other words, they will not wish for death because of stuff they've already done in the past.
So because of what their hands have done refers to what they've done in the past.
So the word because would be the meaning of ba.
The other,
جوزة عالنقه بالانتفائيك أنه قيل انتفا تمنىهم بسبب ما قدرت.
The other meaning is they no longer have that desire.
They used to have it, but they don't have it anymore because of something that's happened, because of some deeds of theirs.
In other words, they did actually have the desire to meet Allah in a good way and all of that,
but over time because of sins that desire went away.
The only way we can unlock the meanings of this ayah is actually to understand the phrase Bima Qadamat Aideehim.
That's the core, that's the crux of this ayah, which is they won't wish for it because of what their hands sent forward.
At taqdeem, what does qadama mean?
أصله جعل الشيء مقدمن, to put something in front, that's مقدم.
So for example, I'm sitting here, I put the laptop in front of me, I made the laptop مقدم.
I put it ahead of myself, okay?
أسابقا meaning I had.
غيره في بكان يقعه في غيره.
والأي دي مجازن في الاقتصاب.
And the hands is an expression in Arabic for earning deeds.
The أن اليد يلزموا الاقتصابه غالبا meaning deeds, our actions are done by our hands for the most part.
So when someone says, you had a hand in this.
Somebody says you had a hand in this.
You know what that means? You were involved in this.
It doesn't literally mean you had your hands stuck in this.
It means you were involved in this.
So it's a figure of speech for involvement or actions.
Now, the Qur'an repeatedly talks about this concept of dakdim.
A good way for you guys to think about that in easy English is prioritizing.
To make something a priority.
Every day in our lives, we have to make a decision about what is the top priority.
Like if you have one hour before class starts, what is your priority?
What are you going to do first, second, third?
And the morning you wake up, you have a list of priorities you got to get done.
Everybody has a checklist.
And in that checklist, what is the most important and second important and third important?
It's either in our head or it's on your calendar or you've made notes.
When your wife or husband or whoever sends you to the grocery store,
then you have a checklist, priority items to get.
Like if you have a baby, you can forget everything, don't come home without the diapers.
That was the most important thing. How did you forget that?
So there's always this concept of priority, meaning something that takes more importance.
And every one of us knows at the end of the day, we were not able to do all the things we were supposed to do.
There's always things that are left that we were supposed to do, right?
But those things became mu'akhar. They got delayed because other things became muqaddam.
They became forward.
Qaddam at Aideehim also means some things became priority for these people.
Some behaviors, some goals became a bigger priority.
And those goals took them away from the friendship of Allah.
Actually, the previous ayah basically says if you truly were friends of Allah,
then you would wish at least for a good death in one way you can take the meaning.
So now they won't wish it because they're not really friends with Allah.
So then the question is what did they do that took them away from Allah's friendship?
Allah's closeness, Allah's protectiveness.
And that is some wrong things became priority for them.
So this discussion is brief but important.
And that is what does it mean that the wrong things become priority?
There's two things I want you to note here.
One is things that are prohibited or forbidden or evil.
Meaning my desire, my lust, my greed, my jealousy, these kinds of things.
When they become the top thought in your mind, I actually wrote this down in my notes.
I want to read this to you because this has to do with desgiyah also.
You know how the ayah said Allah purifies them with the ayat?
So here are some things I want you to make note of.
Anger, jealousy, comparison, worthlessness.
I know there's a lot more. I'm talking fast. It's okay.
You can repeat. What was it?
Anger, jealousy, comparison, worthlessness, loneliness, greed, lust, heedlessness.
Heedlessness basically means I don't fear anything.
I don't worry about anything.
I just...heedlessness is basically I don't care.
That's heedlessness. I don't care attitude.
Heedinism. My ultimate objective is to please myself, to have a good experience.
A good definition of hedonism in easy English would be YOLO.
You guys know YOLO? That would be hedonism.
And materialism.
So materialism takes many forms.
For some people materialism is about their house.
Some people it's their car.
Some people it's how many followers they have on social media.
For some people it's what kind of...what brand of bag are they wearing?
What brand of shoes are they wearing?
So hedonism...this materialism takes different kinds of forms.
Basically shallow things.
You know shallow petty things that they become obsessions.
Anyway, the Quran comes and it cleanses us from all of these or at least controls them.
Because at the end of the day anger is a part of my life.
I can't get rid of it.
Some things are going to make me angry.
What Dasgih does is it keeps it under a limit.
It keeps it within a healthy limit.
Jealousy, you might think, oh jealousy so evil.
No, jealousy is a part of life.
It happens.
Jealousy happens.
Comparison happens.
But it has to stay within a healthy limit and needs to be directed in a healthy direction.
You know, so you can take someone who's doing better than you
and you could be jealous of them or you could be inspired to do better yourself.
So you could take...you could feel that they're doing better
and you can take it in a positive direction, right?
So that's what Dasgih does.
Worthlessness, oh it doesn't matter what I do anyway.
I'm a loser anyway.
Who cares about me?
You know, like those people that say dunya has nothing?
Well then eventually they start saying I'm nothing.
When you're nothing then your actions are nothing,
which means that you could be mean, you could be rude, you could be whatever,
but it doesn't matter because I'm worthless
so I'm going to treat everybody else worthless too.
A lot of times people that are really insulting to others,
deep down inside they actually have no respect for themselves.
They have a deep worthlessness within themselves
and they project that on others.
The Quran makes me feel that I'm worth something.
I'm worth enough of a miracle that all the angels were commanded to do sajda.
I'm worth enough that Allah says,
We honored all children of Adam, which means Allah Himself honored me.
Which means Allah sees me as worth something.
So I shouldn't see myself as worthless.
Loneliness, you know, nobody loves me, nobody understands me, nobody listens to me.
It's like I don't even exist, etc. etc.
Well we're the religion of Ibrahim, alayhis-salam.
I don't think there was anybody who was more lonely than Ibrahim, alayhis-salam.
But Allah gave him his company, didn't He?
What a have Allah and Ibrahim a Khalilah.
Right? So we don't actually know what true loneliness in the end
will actually never be loneliness for a believer.
They'll still have someone and doesn't mean that you don't need anybody in you.
I have Allah, I don't need anyone.
I'm like Ibrahim, alayhis-salam. I don't need you.
No, no, no. Even Musa, alayhis-salam needed Harun.
Right? He asked for Harun. He didn't say I'm going to go do this alone.
But at least you know how to cope with loneliness.
At least you know how to work through loneliness because of the tazkiyah of the Quran.
Then greed, of course. We all want more. Let's be honest.
There's a car you don't have that you like.
There's a house that you drive by, you drive a little slowly.
And then go.
You know, there's a job that you might like.
There's a, you know, we have greed. We have some things that we want that we don't have.
But that's kept under control.
And whoever can be protected from the greed they have inside them.
Meaning it's there but it's not taking over you.
Right? It's being controlled.
The same way Allah says in another place, for example,
Allah put explosive content inside us.
And He also put inside us the ability to protect us from that explosive content.
Fujur means sin, but fujur actually comes from infijar, which means explosion.
Fajr is called fajr because the light explodes.
Right? So there's, my anger is explosive.
My jealousy is explosive. My desires are explosive.
My materialism can be explosive. All this stuff is explosive, man.
It can take over. It can blow up.
But Allah gave us protective mechanisms to keep it under control.
And that's what the revelation does. It starts putting a check on these things.
So now I mentioned these things when I say that they will not wish for death
because of what their hands prioritized.
Some of these things, greed, jealousy, you know, status, you know, your own pride,
even I'm adding other things, heedlessness, they become priority.
They take over somebody's life.
And then when that happens, the religion, the Deen of Allah, becomes secondary.
The Deen of Allah is only going to be practiced when it doesn't get in the way of my own priorities.
My priorities are first, the religion is second.
So an easy example would be, for example, you're in university, you're on campus,
it's time for the prayer, and you're hanging out with a bunch of friends.
Right? And you're like, you know it's got to use time for prayer,
but most of your friends are non-Muslim.
So if you're going to go pray, then they're going to look at you funny.
They're going to say something, don't blow up the library, you know, nine, nine.
Okay?
And you're like, I don't want to hear those comments, so you know what, I'm just not going to pray.
Not this time. I'll delay it.
Now the thing is, in that moment, what did you prioritize?
You prioritized your, the preservation of your dignity, right?
Because you thought you'll preserve your dignity, you won't have to hear those comments, right?
You won't have to hear that ridicule, or you won't have to hear their criticisms later on,
and you saved yourself from that.
You put that as a priority.
People's opinion of you became a priority over what Allah said.
Some people asked the question, it was in the comments.
I mentioned that there's the letter of the law and the spirit of the law,
and there's the letter of the hijab, and there's the spirit of the hijab.
And I did mention the spirit of the hijab, and people were like, what's the spirit?
What's the spirit?
I've given long lectures on surat al-Nur and the ayah of hijab, but I will tell you guys,
because I like Stuttgart, so I'll tell you briefly.
Allah describes in the Quran that a female, the way Allah made,
I didn't say this, just in the Quran, take it up with Allah, okay?
Allah says,
The baby girl is described as someone who is decorated in jewelry.
Young female, a little baby girl, but she already has a desire to be beautiful.
The boy never puts on a shirt and says, look at my shirt.
Dad, look at my shirt.
But a little girl, you put on anything on her, you put on a rubber band on her wrist,
you put on a necklace made of paper, you put on anything, what's she gonna do?
Say something, say something.
And you just tell, he looks a pradia.
I know.
Allah put inside the male something.
He put inside the male the desire to look at beauty.
I don't have to convince you of this, you already know.
You're like, somebody's like, I don't know what you're talking about.
Yes, you do.
He put inside the male the desire to look at beauty.
He put inside the female the desire to look beautiful.
He put it in her from the early ages.
Allah put that in her fitrah.
Now, Surah An-Nur, where Allah describes the head covering,
Allah describes that men must guard their eyes.
They must guard their eyes.
Why? Because the thing that men get the most pleasure out of is looking at beauty.
And the proof of that is in all of the online and media industries
that attract the eyes of men towards female beauty in the worst ways.
And those industries make billions, if not trillions of dollars,
all because of these that men have.
You know that, right?
Like the proof, there's trillions of dollars of proof of something Allah has said.
Okay?
On the flip side, Allah put a desire in women not to,
even though they want to look at beauty,
but they have a much stronger desire than looking,
what's the stronger desire for them?
To look beautiful.
And there are trillions of dollars of investment in the makeup industry,
the fashion industry, the modeling industry,
the advertising industries across the planet
that are evidence to that fact that Allah mentions in Surah An-Nur.
He mentions, these are facts,
that human beings are living evidence of it every day.
Economies, entire gigantic economies are evidence of this.
If you know people that work in social media
and they work in social media advertising,
they know about Google Trends and the social media trend, video trends,
you know what I'm talking about.
You know exactly what I'm talking about.
Now, having said that, the thing that men desire the most,
they have to control it if they have to keep the light in their heart.
So men were told what?
Lower your eyes.
Women were told, and when women are told lower your eyes,
that's way easier for women.
It's like, whatever.
One in 10,000 men, they're like, oh.
Otherwise, men, it's not one in 10,000 women.
Women don't have major fit now when they're walking in an area
where they don't have a lot of money.
They don't have a lot of money.
They don't have a lot of money.
They don't have a lot of money.
Women don't have major fit now when they're walking in an airport.
Everyone in a thousand men.
Sometimes, some use of light type, you know, situation.
They're like, oh, okay.
But men,
As tak fir la, as tak fir la, as tak fir la, as tak fir la, as tak fir la.
Different problem.
Different, but what is the hardest thing for a female?
As hard it is for a man to lower his eyes.
You know what's equally hard for her?
Not to look pretty.
That's the hardest thing for her.
It is so hard for her.
If you want to understand how hard it is for her,
it's as hard as it is for you to what?
Lower your eyes.
You know how every second you have to fight that?
Every minute, you're like, alhamdulillah.
I finished the lower eyes problem.
Now I used to have that problem last year.
I no longer have that problem anymore.
It's on autopilot.
Is it ever on autopilot?
No, you have to guard it every single time.
Guess what women have to go through?
The desire to look beautiful doesn't go away.
They see another woman with beautifully hair done.
They're like, she's got nothing on my hair.
My hair is so much nicer under the sejab, though.
And every time they see a woman with beautiful hair,
with her looks,
and they're like, oh my God,
I can show this so much better than she can.
She didn't even know.
And it's killing them because it's all hidden.
It's hidden all the time.
And it's like, I look so ugly.
I look so ugly right now.
And they get to, they're not even that pretty.
And people think they're pretty.
People don't even know.
I'm so much prettier.
And there's this deep down inside struggle.
And Allah says, yeah, you're going to control that one.
You're going to control that one.
In order to what?
To keep the light in your heart.
To keep the light in your heart.
The strongest impulse of men
that will destroy the state of their heart is that.
And the strongest impulse for women
that will destroy the state of their heart is that
this was about protecting their hearts.
That's actually what it was.
It's the Quran.
We say, oh, it's far, it's far.
Hold on.
How did the Quran talk about it?
Why is it in surah al-Nur?
Why isn't the surah that protects the Nur inside the heart?
Why is it there?
Why is it talked about like this?
Anyway, that's not my subject, but I'm just saying.
But imagine, if that's, for some people,
they can't wish, how can they wish for meeting with Allah
when their desire, their other priorities
became more important.
And you know what happens then?
If I took me in on a bit of the kitabi, what I could for a bit of it.
My desire to look, or my desire on the female side
to look beautiful was too strong.
I couldn't control it.
Now I'm going to say, you know what?
Just because I don't do it doesn't mean I'm not a good believer.
I'm really spiritual, you know.
And I'm going to make lots of Instagram posts about
how I fast on Monday and Thursday
and how I do tahajjud and how I do this and how I do that.
And you know, who are you telling this to? Instagram?
Who needs to hear this?
Who needs to hear Allah SWT?
Do I need to broadcast? How many enough did I pray?
How much I fasted? What sadaqa I did?
What zikr I did?
What naa, this is just you know something deep inside.
You know that you're doing something that's not okay
and you're trying to tell yourself,
but at least I'm doing so much other good.
Don't judge me. Don't judge me.
I said don't judge me.
Nobody's judging you, but actually deep down inside
you can't help but also judge yourself.
بَلِ الْإِنْسَانُ عَلَى نَفْسِهِ بَصِيْعَ
A human being has full view of their own selves.
No one has to judge you.
You have to judge yourself.
And you should judge yourself.
And this new nonsense,
be merciful to yourself.
Give yourself room to be human.
It's okay.
It's okay.
That it's okay is so, the Quran's expression for that is
سَوْوَلَتْ لَكُمْ عَنْفُسُكُمْ عَمْرَى
You made something convenient for yourselves.
You said brothers made something convenient for themselves.
It's okay.
Obviously, Dad doesn't love us.
It's okay if we just take one, we're not killing all the brothers,
we're just killing one of them.
And we're going to be good after that.
سَوْوَلَتْ لَكُمْ عَنْفُسُكُمْ عَمْرَى
You know, this is actually something that we have to really,
really learn about.
قَدَّ تَقْدِيمُ الْأَيدْ
What is it that we are prioritizing?
Is it that impulse that is a bigger priority than the word of Allah?
For men or for women?
What is keeping me from praying?
What's keeping me from giving up the haram money that I'm making?
What's keeping me?
What's keeping me from lying?
What's keeping me from giving the money that I owe?
To I borrowed somebody's money, I didn't give it back.
What's keeping me from giving back that money?
Something else became a priority over the word of Allah
and those are the kinds of people who will never wish to meet with Allah.
They can't. How can they?
How can they?
وَدَا يَتَمَنَّا وُنَّا
وُعَبَدَنْ بِمَا قَدَّمَدْ اَيْدِيمِ
By the way, those kinds of people,
when they have that, it's called cognitive dissonance,
meaning they're believers, but they prioritize the wrong thing
and they know they're violating the word of Allah.
You know what they do then?
The Quran is so accurate.
You know what they do?
They talk a lot about the mercy of Allah.
Those people talk a lot about how Allah forgives,
how Allah is merciful, how Allah is so loving,
how Allah is so kind, how Allah knows what you're going through.
Allah is for... Why?
Because there's another side to your relationship with Allah
that they don't want to deal with.
You know what that side is?
You're going to stand in front of Allah.
You're going to explain yourself what you did, what you did.
I don't want to deal with that part of it.
I want to deal with Allah is my friend.
What did I say?
قُلْ يَا يُهَلَّتِنْهَا دُوْ إِنْزَعَنْتُمْ
أَنَّكُمْ أَوْ لِيَا أُولِ اللَّهِ
مِنْ دُونِ النَّاسْ بَتَمَنَّا وُلْمَوتِنْ كُدُمْ صَدِقْرِينْ
Why do they think they're friends with Allah?
Because if you're friends, Allah is always going to be okay with me.
I'm going to be saved.
Allah is merciful.
Allah is loving.
Allah is guaranteeing me Jannah.
That's because the wrong priorities.
It's the wrong priorities that say, I'm going to look at one dimension of my relationship with God, not the other.
Not the other.
And understand from this the Christian concept of God is God is love.
Right?
For the Israelites, the God is the savior of the Israelites.
He's the God of Israel.
Actually, he's the God of Israel.
For Muslims, Allah is many names at the same time.
So he loves us more than we can love ourselves.
He can judge us more than anybody else can judge us.
He can hold us responsible, accountable more than anybody else can.
It's not one relationship.
It's multiple relationships.
We don't get to pick one of them and say, I'm going to ignore the others because of our own issues.
So what we do is we, because we have our own issues, we hold on to some names of Allah and forget other names of Allah.
And that's exactly what they did in Awliya.
We did not do it without people.
We hope that death will come to the truthful.
We hope that it will never come to them.
And Allah knows who the wrongdoers are.
Allah knows the wrong you're doing.
Allah knows fully well.
You see how interrogative that is?
What a precise surgical response that is from Allah.
Now, this is a scary picture.
But okay.
Thank you, Lean.
Okay, let's see why that's scary.
Here's what's coming up in the next episode and this deeper look of Surat Al-Jumu'ah.
A'mal means to do something and fi'il also means to do something.
But when you do something without thinking about it, it's a fi'il.
So any action can be a fi'il.
Breathing right now for me is a fi'il.
When I open my eyes and I see you guys, that's a fi'il.
But if I choose one person to stare at, then that would be a amal.
Because it's a conscious act.
So amal includes intent.
Fi'il does not include intent necessarily, but amal absolutely includes intent.
So Allah is saying, He will inform you of the things you did intently, knowingly, consciously.
Okay?
Now we're coming to the most exciting part before the break.
I need five minutes, guys.
Is that okay?
Five minutes.
Okay.
We've finished two sections of the Surah today.
And I'm going to give you a review of Section 1.
Section 1 was like this.
Everything in the skies and the earth does to speed.
You sabbihulillahimafi al-samawati wumafil ard.
You remember that?
Then He was the king.
Al-malik, then al-Quddus, then al-Azeez, then al-Hakeem.
Then Allah said, He sent to you.
