If I am just having way too much fun, way too much like money is good, entertainment is good, family of everything is set, everything is cruising, right?
It's easy for me to forget that this life is temporary.
Maybe at that time a good reminder for me is I should be prepared for death and I shouldn't just associate this as my goal.
But my journey is a lot longer. You can get distracted easily.
Allah says it. When you have a lot of good things, they distract.
And once you appreciate what's going on in Bayna TV, I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
We are now up to ayah 6. Our goal today is to reach ayah number 8, which I think is an easy goal.
So we might not even need the entire time today, but I'm not going to go past ayah number 8. That's at least my assumption for today.
Today's subject is going to be really interesting.
6, 7 and 8, all three ayah that we're going to be discussing have to do with death, which sounds very dark.
But actually it's an opportunity to discuss the Islam's take in Islam's philosophy on death, on life and death and how we view it, how we're supposed to think about that, not just philosophically and theologically,
but what impact is that supposed to have on my day to day life?
Death is a reality, but how much of that plays a role in the way that I live my life and my emotions, how I regulate myself on a day to day basis.
So let me just first begin with this ayah's translation and then inshallah we'll get into the work.
Qul, tell them. When you see Qul in the Quran, it's the Prophet ﷺ being told to speak to somebody directly.
So the Prophet ﷺ is being commanded to address this community.
So Allah's now, the lessons so far were to the Muslims, but now there's a quick switch and now temporarily go talk to them also.
So the secondary audience became the primary audience temporarily.
Okay, they became the primary audience.
And then right after that, they're going to become the secondary audience again and the primary audience will once again be the Muslims.
Ya ayyuhadna zina amadu is coming in ayah number nine.
This is an important piece of information because this tells us that the Quran was speaking to multiple audiences at the same time.
Right? And when it's speaking to multiple audiences, like I'm talking to you, but they can hear me.
Right? Or I'm talking to them and they can hear me.
And then sometimes I switch over and talk to them directly while they can also hear.
Kind of like, you know, a parent when they're yelling at one child and the other kids are enjoying it.
And then they turn to the other one and they're like, your turn.
You know, they switch to the other side.
So, but there is this kind of intifat.
It's called intifat, switching from one audience to another audience.
And this is something that happens in the Quran very strategically.
And this is a lesbian showing us that in the in Medina, when the Quran was being recited and when it was being declared and publicly shared,
that it wasn't just the Muslims that were listening and engaging with the Quran.
It was also actually the Jewish and Christian communities that were engaging with the Quran.
And the Quran was actually telling the Prophet's life to engage them directly in dialogue.
It was actually directly engaging. It's not just talking about them. It's talking to them.
And the Prophet is being instructed directly to engage with them, which is really interesting because there was a mentality that the scholars,
like there's their people of knowledge and they saw the the rest of the Arabs as these uneducated people who don't know how to read and write.
Right. So how can someone who's uneducated officially be debating with someone who is very well educated in their literature?
Right.
It's like it's like somebody who didn't even graduate from school debating with someone who has a PhD.
Right. And the scholarship of the Jewish community, the Israelites, their scholarship is actually called Ahbar in the Quran.
Ahbar actually comes from the word Hebrew, which means ink.
And because they wrote so much and because they read the leather that they stretched and they wrote on,
they read that so much and they put their finger on it so much, their hands would always have ink on them.
Smudged from the reading and the writing they did all the time.
And so they just got called people of ink because they're doing all this reading and writing all the time.
I had the good fortune of making friends with a couple of rabbis and, you know, I hang out with them.
They shall not be named because they would rather remain anonymous.
Right. Which is cool. I get it.
So but when I talk to them, I am so impressed with the level of study that they do.
Like it's unbelievable how much study they do.
I mean, one of the friends I know, he studied 14 years in their madrasa, like their religious school, 14 years,
and then went to university and did a PhD, you know, another eight years.
And then after that, he still now studies an average of 10 hours a day.
This is an average of 10 hours.
Like the amount that they study is staggering.
It's actually so impressive, you know.
And this is their history.
Their history is that of volumes and volumes and volumes and volumes of books.
These are people of a lot of learning.
And now the Prophet, peace be upon him, was an ummi, which means doesn't read and doesn't write.
And you didn't write this with your hands because you don't know how to write.
That's what the Prophet, the claim about the Prophet, is,
he's being told to go debate with them.
Why? How could that be possible?
This is actually the second episode where this is being done with the Israelites.
The first episode that this was being done was with Jesus, with Isa, peace be upon him.
And with Isa, peace be upon him, he went to the Israelite scholars and you would quote the Torah to them.
Because Allah taught Isa, peace be upon him, the Torah and the Injeel.
And you had the book, the wisdom, the Torah and the Injeel.
And he didn't go to their schools to learn it.
Allah revealed it over again to him.
So you can think of it as Torah was revealed to Musa, peace be upon him,
and it was revealed again to Isa, peace be upon him.
So the original Torah, because it was changed so many times through history.
So Jesus had it again.
So he would quote them the Torah better than they knew after all of their scholarship.
And we know in the Quran, we have something about Jesus that's not even in the biblical literature.
Like he started speaking from the day he was born.
So now, not just, this is ummi, meaning unlettered as if they came out of their child.
He was literally ummi, like he just came out of his own.
And he was already speaking to them, you understand?
So this is a repeat of something that has happened before,
but the Prophet Isa, peace be upon him, is being told to challenge them with this divine knowledge.
And this also tells us something else about the nature of our religion.
If you know your book, if you know the scripture that Allah has revealed, the Quran,
then you don't have to be intimidated by the qualifications of someone.
And I can't talk to them about this because they have way too much, you know, too many degrees that I can't challenge.
Because sometimes you'll find in a debate or a discussion, somebody might say,
oh yeah, what degree do you have?
What qualifications do you have?
And qualifications are about how many books have you read, right?
How many classes and courses have you taken?
You know, how many courses of education have you completed from one degree to another, to another, to another?
Which is all about knowledge, right?
That's all the more degrees you have, the more knowledge you have.
But the Quran, interestingly, the Quran didn't emphasize knowledge as much as it emphasized thinking.
So the Quran keeps saying, it doesn't constantly say,
don't you then know?
It says,
don't you then think?
So what's the difference between knowing and thinking?
So I'll give you a quick example of this because this also goes back to
and it goes back to that concept.
And that is that, you know, everybody can watch the news.
Everybody can watch the news.
You can say, oh, this war started, or the price went up for gasoline, the price went up.
Or, you know, food prices went up or whatever.
Anybody can see that.
But there are some people who can see that and they know that that means that there's a ripple effect of this bit of news.
And behind it, there's an entire story.
And after it, there's an entire story.
And they can think through that.
It's not just a bit of information, but they can analyze that information, right?
You can study history.
In study and history, you can see this nation came, this empire came, that this empire came, that this empire came.
But if somebody studies the philosophy of history, you know what they study?
How do nations rise and how do nations fall?
What, like they study the formula behind it, right?
That's actually thinking.
That's not just the information because, you know, even in school, sometimes you had to take a test.
You had to memorize a bunch of information.
And then when the test came, you just have to write the information that you memorized.
So you had the knowledge, but you didn't have the thought, the thought process behind it, right?
And by the way, some of the most boring subjects when you were younger are subjects like history, right?
Literature, these are the boring subjects.
I don't have to know all this.
What's the point of it?
Right?
And then as you become older and wiser, you'll realize that those are some of the most important things that develop a person's understanding, right?
Because then Akali is being applied.
What the Prophet s.a.w. is teaching us is that it's not the degrees that make it intellectual.
Actually, it's thinking that makes it intellectual.
You can have someone in the desert that has never gone to a university who's a bigger intellectual than someone who has 20 degrees.
And they've got all this information gathered up.
And I'm not saying those people can't be wise.
Also, they can be, but I've met plenty of, I'm sorry to say this, but I've met plenty of PhDs that are stupid.
And I've met plenty of taxi drivers that dropped out of school in third grade that are very wise, that are extremely intellectual.
That's reality life, right?
So here, all Ya'ayu and Nazeena hadu, you go say to them.
The Prophet's being told, go address them.
And then say what to them?
Ya'ayu and Nazeena hadu means those from the Jewish community.
Ya'ayu and Nazeena hadu.
The word hadu is interesting because it's a verb.
If it was Ya'ayu and Yehud, and Yehud is the Jewish term also, right?
And in some societies, this became a condescending term, but this is original.
There's a history behind the term.
We'll look at that history in a second.
But the word hadu is a verb.
And it was used in Arabic.
According to Hamid al-Din Farahi, he argues that it was used in Arabic for those who belong to the Jewish community.
So it was not a condescending term.
It was actually used as a regular term.
The verb in its original meaning in Arabic, hadayahudu actually means to repent, to make tawbah.
Hadayahudu means to make tawbah.
So Ya'ayu and Nazeena hadu actually means those who repented in the past also.
It doesn't just mean those who were Jewish, but also means those who repented.
Hadaa also means to come back, those who went back, meaning those who went back to God.
Which is actually another meaning of tawbah.
Tawbah means to return back to Allah, as it does in it.
So it says,
If you have the assumption that you are in fact close friends and protective friends to Allah,
as opposed to all other people,
then wish for death.
If in fact you are truthful and solid in your claim.
These are the words that this is a word of translation of the ayah.
The word hadaa also means to move gently, to move slowly and gently.
So that's one of the side meanings of it.
I just give it to you.
But I want to read this to you because this is actually an excerpt from a book called Mufradatun Quran.
Which means terms of the Quran, written by a remarkable scholar, Hamiduddin Farahi Rahimallah.
He was an Indian scholar, but he had studied, he had traveled across the Arab world also.
And he wrote books in which he specialized in what the Quran is saying and how that compares to the Torah.
And he actually mastered Hebrew also.
So he knew quite a bit of Hebrew.
And he would comment on words in the Quran that are also found in the Torah and knew a comparative analysis of them.
One of his most amazing books is Arat Yusahiyeh, Timad-u-Zabih.
For those of you that can read Arabic, the correct position in who was to be slaughtered.
Was it Ishmael that was to be slaughtered by the dream of Abraham?
Or was it Isaac?
Was it Ismael or Ishaq?
Because Muslims have both opinions in our history.
Some Muslims believe it was Ishaq, some Muslims believe it was Ismael.
So he wrote a book about why he believes it's Ismael A.S.
What's really cool about his book is the first argument is the Quran's argument.
The second argument is the Torah's argument.
And the third argument is from Jewish scholarship.
Not even from Muslim scholarship, Jewish scholarship.
And he shows demonstrably how it is actually Ismael A.S.
That was supposed to be the one to be slaughtered.
He proves it from all three.
And then comes to that conclusion.
But a very unique kind of writer.
Anyway, so he talked about the word hadu because it has that biblical connotation.
He says, hadayahudu haudantaba waraja'a.
This word means to repent and to go back.
Hikayaat an-du'a'i Musa A.S.
This is also used in that way in the dua of Musa A.S.
which is in the Quran.
Wa qtub lana fi hadihehid dunya hasana wasil aakhira.
I actually read this to you from Surat al-A'raf.
A guarantee for us good in this life and in the next life.
Inna hudna ilayka.
Inna hudna ilayka from yawudu or hadayahudu is actually we come back to you.
Meaning we repent to you.
So the word is used in the meaning of repentance.
Wa qalu wa aizan hada sarayahudiyan.
And hada also means for someone to be Jewish.
To actually be Jewish.
And it's also used in that way.
For example,
khunuhudana un-nasara.
Haqadah tahuwada wa danika'a la taliqil arabiya.
So the word tahuwada, for those of you that know a little bit of Arabic morphology, sarf,
tahuwada tanasara.
So nasrani means Christian.
Tanasara means to become Christian or to be Christian.
Tahuwada means to be Jewish.
So, kama yuqal tanasara bida nasraniya.
Wa za'ama tta'inun thu qur'an.
Anna haathith kala maqalima khata.
And some critics believe that this word is a mistake in the Quran.
Fa inna isma liyawud,
lesa maafuza min maddat haud.
Balhwa nisba ilayyawudah.
So, he says some people think this is a mistake in the Quran
because the word Jewish or the word yawudi or hada
is not about returning or repenting.
It actually originally has to do with Judea
or Judah, actually Judah,
who is the fourth son of Jacob in the Bible.
So, Jacob has 12 sons
and the fourth son's name is Yahuda, actually, Yahuda.
And that's in English or Latinized, it becomes Judah.
And later on, instead of reading it, I'll summarize this for you,
later on the Jewish empire, from his children, by the way,
from the children of Judah, from Yaqub al-Azim,
eventually came Dawud al-Azim.
And from Dawud al-Azim came Suleiman al-Azim.
And Dawud al-Azim had a massive empire
and so did Suleiman al-Azim.
And that empire was called Judah, or Judea, actually, Yahuda.
So, it was named after their forefather, which is the son of Yaqub.
Eventually, the Israelites, they started fighting with each other.
The believers of that time, the Muslims of that time,
they started fighting with each other
and they broke that one nation into two nations,
much after Suleiman al-Azim.
They broke it up into two nations called Judea and Israel.
So, they're called Judea and Israel.
And eventually, even those nations fell apart,
others came and invaded them.
And when they invaded them, actually, let me read that part for you here.
Did I click here? No, I didn't.
Oh, here it is.
So, the fourth son of Yaqub, who was the fourth son of Yaqub,
was Dawud al-Azim.
Dawud al-Azim was from this lineage.
So, it became the second son of the Jewish nation,
the Jewish nation of Israel,
and the rest of the Israelites, the rest of the Israelites,
and the rest of the Israelites,
and then after that, the Sabbath and the Caldions,
the Caldions, they called them.
You can look them up on Wikipedia.
There was a Caldian empire, they came and they kind of destroyed
the Jewish empire and they broke it up.
And now they saw all the Jews,
they didn't used to get called Jews before.
The Judeans were the people that lived in the kingdom of Judea
or the descendants of Judah, you understand?
But the enemy came and they just started calling all of the Israelites
Yerudi.
And they didn't say Yerudi with Addaal,
they said Yerudi with Addaal.
So, they changed it.
And so, it started that way, this just became the new word for them.
But it goes back to the fourth son of Yaqub al-Azim,
or historically you can say it refers to the time
where their empire started disintegrating.
The Jewish empire started disintegrating
and that's when this name became the common name.
There's another interesting thing about this name.
The Bible has the story of Yaqub and his family.
Like you don't have the absolute Yusuf in the Quran.
So, the Bible has the story of Yaqub and his wife
and each one of his wives, like Lea and Rachel,
and you know, he had two wives and two servants
and he had children with all of them.
And one of those Rachel's children are Joseph and Benjamin,
who we call what, Yusuf and Midyamin.
But the other children, the way they have the story is that
every time a child was born, the mother, in this case Lea,
made a prayer. Right?
Oh, this is a mercy from God.
Or God has granted this child and things like that.
And so, she turns back to Allah and makes dua
and when Judah was born,
and she said the Hebrew version of Yahuza
and that's why she named him that,
which actually has similar meaning to coming back to God
as a show of gratitude to God.
So, what Allah does in the Quran when he says,
Ya'u Yuhadna dhina hadu, he's actually,
he's killing two birds with one stone.
One, it's referring to their empire name
and their civilizational name
and it's also referring to the idea that they were supposed
to come back to Allah.
And that's where the name's blessing came from.
So, that's how the Quran has employed this name.
Okay, anyway. So, in zaamtum, then there's the word za'am
and this is an important word to understand in the Quran.
Za'am, kidmiz'ama means a snake, a serpent.
Taza'um means a lie.
Azza'um min an ibil wal ghinnam.
This is, let me explain this to you, animals.
Sometimes when they buy an animal,
they check if it's muscular or if it's got good fat,
depending on what they're going to do with it.
If they're going to load a lot of burdens on it,
they want to see if it's muscular.
If they're hungry, they're going to check if it's fat.
Right, because they want to enjoy the fatty meat.
Right, so, when they check the animal like that,
some of you think you're experts in fruits.
So, when you pick up a fruit in the store,
you kind of like, you check the watermelon.
You listen to the soul of the watermelon and then you...
Which is, you know, some people have this like...
They believe they have knowledge of the unseen
when they pick a cantaloupe or a watermelon,
but they look like they know what they're doing.
You see, some people really take this seriously.
You know, put that tomato down. It's red though.
Yeah, but that one, you see that?
They're both red.
So, but this is also called a za'um.
Za'um is the animal that you feel the flesh on.
Roasted greasy meat is called shawat wu za'um.
You know, the first...
The land that starts growing a lot of crop all of a sudden.
Right, that's called az-z'amatid ar-dol wu za'um.
It's a farmer that covers the body za'um.
Lots of different meanings from this word,
but here's the bottom line.
This is why the word za'um was used mostly
in something that isn't for sure.
You're not so sure about it.
So you use the word za'um.
Like, you know, you say,
Hey, are you going to come tomorrow?
I'm pretty sure I'm coming.
Are you coming?
I'm pretty sure.
What are you doing?
You're putting a little bit of doubt
in whether you're coming or not.
Wala yuhaktaquwala yudra la'allahu kathif.
And it cannot be verified or known for sure
whether it's true or not.
Like, you can't be entirely certain.
I'm balfing.
Wala al-azhari ibaratun duwaddikhu ma'akad dhalalat
ttaqeeb alamala yuttaqwubihim minal kalam.
And it indicates, according to al-azhari,
this is the kind of verb that's used to say,
when someone's saying something that you cannot fully trust.
You cannot fully trust it.
Now, from this came another word, which is za'een.
Za'een.
Za'een means someone who gives a guarantee.
So it's used in surat Yusuf, for example,
that whoever finds the cup,
I'm going to give them the reward of a full camel load of wealth.
And I'm guaranteeing it.
I'm giving the guarantee of it.
But the guarantor is in making people believe
that he's going to be able to give something,
even though they haven't seen any evidence.
So they have to rely on his claim
and have confidence in him without evidence.
So that becomes a za'een, a guarantor.
So sometimes, for example, when you're signing papers,
or you're signing an apartment rent lease agreement,
or you're leasing a car or something like that,
they make you fill out all kinds of paperwork,
your date of birth, your financial records,
your job, how much money you make,
how long have you had the job, what's your shoe size,
what's your favorite color, all of it,
they make you fill that out, right?
What's your blood type in case we need to drain your blood
to make the payment, et cetera, et cetera.
But they don't have a guarantee that you're going to pay,
but they have to make their best guess
based on your job history, your financial situation, right?
Have you made payments in the past or not?
And then they basically use that
as the closest thing to a guarantee.
So they do za'een, right?
And you're basically giving them a guarantee
that you're going to make the payments based on this.
So you become a za'een, you understand?
So the verb being used, if you are so sure,
is actually, are you so confident?
But I can tell you're not that confident.
Because if they were absolutely confident
about what they're saying,
then the word za'een wouldn't be used.
You understand?
So if you actually think this,
and I know that you don't totally think this,
then as opposed to other people,
Fatima and Nawalbaut,
now before I read some hadith to you,
we need to understand the challenge in this ayah.
Look, I don't try to,
I don't just try to read them with a silhouette
and then tell you what they said.
When I study the Quran,
my first process is Allah is talking to me,
not to any of you, so are going to me.
Right now, Allah is directly speaking with me
as a slave of Allah who received,
by whatever means, received this final revelation.
We got it from those who believe before us,
said those before us, said those before us,
and now I'm hearing these words.
What am I supposed to think about this ayah?
Right?
So my first question that comes is,
well, the ayah says,
if you are actually friends with Allah,
then you should wish for what?
Death.
So then my question becomes,
well, if I want to be friends with Allah,
should I wish for death?
Logical question, right?
Is that what the Quran wants?
Because it's saying, if you really are,
then you should wish for death.
So we need to address that question.
First and foremost,
that I misrepresented what Allah said on purpose.
So you understand the problem with that kind of thinking.
The ayah doesn't say,
if you're actually friends with Allah,
then wish for death.
It says, if you think you're so confident
that you're the real friends of Allah,
as opposed to everyone else on earth,
mendun and nas.
That's a disclaimer, isn't it?
That's an additional qualification.
So it doesn't just say,
oh, if you're close to Allah,
you should want to die.
No, if you're close to Allah,
and you're so confident
that you're the only one close to Allah,
and everybody else is not,
then you know what?
You should even be closer to Allah.
Because if you're that close,
then get even closer.
Because nobody else is.
So that's one dent in that argument.
But the other is, let's take a step back
and understand how Islam wants me to think about death.
Should I be wishing for death?
Should I actually be asking for death?
Sometimes we have these more Islamic
than Islam type discussions,
where people say things like,
we love the Akhirah more than we love disdunya.
Wallahi disdunya is nothing.
Disdunya is nothing.
It is not even a tissue, a used tissue.
It will go away.
And then so much nothing, nothing, nothing.
And I'm like,
if somebody came to you and you said,
your parents are nothing,
you'd get upset because they are something.
Somebody came to you and said,
the Quran that Allah revealed to us in disdunya is nothing.
You would have a problem with that.
And if somebody told you,
if somebody says, this tree is nothing,
and that mountain is nothing,
well Allah says go look at the tree.
And He says go look at the mountain,
and find an ayah in it.
And an ayah is something of value.
How are you telling me the tree
and the mountain is nothing?
How are you going to tell me Allah says the winds are something?
Allah says the clouds are something.
They have value.
Allah says the sea is something, doesn't He?
Doesn't He say that?
And if it's all nothing,
by the way, if I do nothing for you,
then you don't have to say thank you.
Because I did what?
Nothing.
But if I did something for you,
then at least the courtesy is what?
Thanks.
Allah does so much for us,
and He talks about it in the Qur'an,
and then as a result, what should we do?
We cannot thank Him for something that has no value.
Isn't that true?
So first, the first is nothing.
Hold on, let's put that in perspective.
This dunya is nothing compared to the basr.
Of course, this planet is nothing
compared to the rest of the universe in size.
The Akhira is the size of seven heavens,
and the earth combined.
So clearly, the Akhira is way bigger
than this dunya, and by comparison, it is nothing.
But right now we are here, and this is something.
And this is so important that Allah decided
that throughout this,
throughout up from the seven heavens,
He decided to speak to us on this earth.
You know what that means?
This is something.
And you know what?
If you're nothing, if you're so insignificant,
why would Allah tell all the angels
that have ever existed,
I have created this creation
that demands a sajda should be done
over what I have done?
Like, why would all the angels do sajda
at the amazing creation of the human being
if we're nothing, if this life is nothing?
And He didn't just say,
oh, do sajda to the, you know, to the rule.
Or because of the rule.
No.
He said, I'm going to make Him from clay, dirt,
which is earth, and then I'm going to put my rule in Him.
And then you will do sajda.
He described the entire process
before we were told to do sajda.
So, you know, sometimes we say these things
and they sound like really cool slogans.
And then you forward them to people
when you see these YouTube shorts.
This dunya has nothing.
Hey, I want to forward this to all my friends
because I'm really depressed.
And I just want everyone else to feel
like dunya has nothing.
Yes, in comparison to the Akhira,
Fa ma mataa ul hayatil dunya fil akhirati laqqadil.
The things you would join this life
are opposed to the after life,
there are nothing but very little.
So that's one.
The second is, I just,
I just want to be with Allah swt.
I don't want to live in this world.
I just want to go to, okay,
let's talk to you a little bit.
Let's have a conversation with you.
Man ahabba, there's a Hadith of the Prophet says, okay?
Man ahabba liqaa Allahi ahabba Allahu liqaaahu
whoever loves to meet with Allah,
Allah would love to meet with them.
Okay?
Man kariha liqaa Allah,
kariha Allahu liqaaahu
and whoever doesn't want to meet with Allah,
Allah doesn't want to meet with them.
Now you would think meeting with Allah means what?
Death.
So if you don't love dying,
then Allah doesn't love you.
And if you hate dying,
then Allah doesn't want to meet you.
Okay?
That would, you might take that.
Qalata a'isha'u ba'agu wa z-wajihi
in na nakrahu al-mout,
a'isha'u ba'bi'al-lahu anha
and some of his other spouses also said,
we hate death.
What?
A'isha'u wa z-wan?
Wait, you're supposed to be Islamic.
Qalata yisa'ak
wa lakinna al-moubin idha hadarahu al-mout
bushira bi-l-udwaninnahi wa karamatihi
This is not what this means.
However, when a believer,
when death comes to a believer,
when death comes to a believer,
he is given the good news
that Allah is happy with him
and he's about to be honored.
This is mentioned in Sunnah Fusilat.
Inna liwi na qalurabbu l-Allahu ful-mastaqabu
tatalazalu a'lihimu al-malayka
anna taqafu wa na ta'azalu wa abshiru bil-danna
When a person is dying,
the angels show up before you're dying.
You haven't died yet.
You're dying and angels have already started showing up.
In the hospital bed, you're in bed,
people around you are crying
and you can't move your face anymore.
You can't show them with your eyes,
but angels are starting to show up
and saying congratulations, you made it, sir.
You did good.
Abshunu, congratulations, Jannah is coming for you.
We were, by the way,
we were your security guards in this life.
And we're going to be escorting you into the Asr.
And you will have everything you ever wanted.
Everybody around you is crying at your life.
You know what?
This person acted like one day
they will love to meet with Allah.
And when the time comes,
Allah is now welcoming them
as if He loves to meet with them.
Okay.
Fa-laisa shay'un ahabba i-rayhi mimma ababahu
So at that time,
there will be nothing more beloved to that person
except for what is in front of them.
Fa-ahabba liqaa Allah
so they will at that time love meeting with Allah
wa-ahabba Allah liqaaahu
and Allah will love to meet with them.
Wa-innil kashira ila hudira
And the disbeliever,
when death is presented to them,
bushyama bi'adab illahi wa rukubatihi
they will be given the good news of Allah's punishment
and the outcome of their actions.
Fa-laisa shay'un akraha ilayhi mimma ababahu
there's nothing more hated to that person
more than what they see in front of them.
Karihah liqaa Allah
If this person hated the meeting with Allah
wa-karihah Allah liqaaahu
Allah hated meeting with them.
Man ahabba liqaa Allah
ahabba Allah liqaaahu
wa-min karihah liqaa Allah
karihah Allah liqaaahu
fa-qala fa-ateitu a'isha
This is another narration, same one.
The one who loves meeting with Allah,
Allah loves meeting with them,
the one who hates meeting with Allah,
Allah hates meeting with them.
The Sahabi says,
I came to A'isha l-labilahu anha.
Fa-kultu ya'umal muminin
I said, mother of the believers.
I heard Abu Huraira
I heard Abu Huraira
mention this hadith from the prophet
If it is like that, faqad halakna
then we're dead.
If that is the case, then
I mean that means we should all die.
It's such a depressing hadith.
That's what he said too.
Who?
Aisha l-labilahu.
He said,
If that is a hadith,
he didn't say the hadith,
he just said,
I heard something,
he said,
I heard something,
I heard something,
I heard something,
I heard something,
I heard something,
I heard something from Abu Huraira.
If it's true, we're all dead.
And she said,
Well, if the prophet said,
you're dead, then you're dead.
But what did he say?
So she said,
Anha,
What did he say actually?
She was curious though.
Tell me what he said.
Qa'la qa'la Rasulullah
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
man ahabba diqaa Allah
ahabba Allah
diqaa Allah
The person then told her,
the prophet Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said,
Whoever loves to meet with Allah,
Allah loves to meet with them.
Man qa'liha diqaa Allah
qa'liha Allah diqaa
whoever hated meeting with Allah,
Allah does not like to meet with them.
And then she says,
Wa layisa minna,
Oh, he said,
Wa layisa minna ahadun
illa huwa huwa yakra hu'ul moot
and there's not one of us who doesn't hate death.
Who likes death?
Fak'alat.
So she said,
By the way,
the one who's saying,
I can't think of anyone who loves to die,
who wants to die.
Everybody hates death.
Is he not a sahabi?
Is he not a sahabi?
He's a sahabi, right?
He's not a sahabi that's going to make a YouTube real about,
We should love death more than we love life.
Have you let this,
that's a sahabi if you watch that YouTube video below.
Or you need to have a conversation with Aisha, bro.
Wa bi-Allah.
Fak'alat.
Qa'la hu rasulullah,
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Aisha confirmed,
that's exactly what the prophet said.
So she had heard this before.
So she told him,
Right, that is what the prophet said.
Wa laysa binda dhita thabu ilayh
And it is not what you are going towards.
Meaning,
you're taking this in the wrong direction.
Then she says,
Wa lakin idhaa shakha sal-basah
Wa ha'shar iya s-sadr
Wa kasha'ar wal jimd
Wa tashad najatin asabi'
When the fingers stop moving,
when the eyes are petrified,
when the heart,
when the chest is humbled,
when the skin,
the hair rises,
meaning death comes.
The moment of death.
Fa'inda thalika.
And at that moment,
whoever would love to meet with Allah,
Allah would love to meet with,
then this hadith is about
the moment of your death.
Not the rest of your life.
Now, another narration
of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
La yata manna ahadukum wal mauta
None of you should wish for death.
None of you should wish for death.
We have to understand,
the ayah just said,
if you are French to Allah,
then what?
Wish for death.
And now the hadith is saying clearly,
none of you should wish for death.
We've got to reconcile this.
We've got to figure this out.
Okay.
Imma mohsi'an fa la'allahu yasdaad.
Wa imma musi'an fa la'allahu yasdaat.
Wa tafakur alaybo khariaan muslin.
If it's a good person,
if they live longer,
then they will do more good deeds.
And if they're not a good person,
then maybe they'll make doba.
So they shouldn't wish for what?
Death.
Allah is keeping air going into my lungs.
He's allowing me to inhale and exhale.
Allah is allowing my heart to pump blood
throughout my body because
he in his wisdom,
the one who owns everything in his wisdom,
yuhiyyuhu yuhiyyuhu,
decides when I will live,
decides when I will die.
He decided,
I still have an opportunity
to do more good deeds,
and I still have an opportunity to repent.
It is not time for me to leave yet.
When there's no purpose left for me on this earth,
and Allah's plan, I will die.
When there's no purpose left.
And that purpose of mine,
how long will I live?
What good will I serve?
How much opportunity of good will I have?
That wasn't decided by me.
That was decided by Allah az-zawati.
This is in the hands of Allah.
So nobody should be wishing for that.
Something that is decreed,
yuhiyyuhu yuhiyyuhu,
what you mean?
He gives life, he gives death.
He gives life and he gives death.
So now,
alright,
let's now understand this ayah again.
And before we do,
a couple of other statements about death.
Two about death and two about life.
We make a dua in the Quran,
Yusuf A.M. made this dua,
Tawafani musliman wa al-hikni bus-salitheen.
Ya Allah, when you give me death,
give me death as a Muslim.
Take me as a Muslim.
And join me in the company of good people.
That's the words of Yusuf A.M.
We make dua in Surat Al-Imran,
wa tawafana ma al-l-abraa.
Take us among good people.
Take us among the good people.
So these are du'as for what?
Death, but they're not for death right now.
You know what these du'as are?
When the time of death comes,
Ya Allah, allow me to be in a state of Islam,
and allow me to join the people that are good.
When that time comes.
Ya Allah says,
Ittaqullah ha-haqqatu qatihi wa la tamutuna illa wa antu muslimu.
Don't you dare die except you're in surrender.
Don't you dare let death come to you except you're in surrender.
This is not wishing for death.
This is preparing for death.
Those are two separate things.
So that's the goal.
The point of my statement so far is this.
The believer does not wish for death,
but the believer prepares for death.
The believer is ready for death,
even if they're not wishing for it.
I have to live my life in a way that if Allah took me today,
I should be able to say to Allah,
Ya Allah, today I may tauba.
Before you took me, I may tauba.
And I did whatever good I could,
and I was trying to get away from as much bad as I could.
I have to live my life ready for death,
not wishing for death.
You understand the point?
Now, if Akhira is everything,
and Dunya is nothing,
the biggest convention of the year
where you realize Dunya is nothing is Hajj.
Why?
Because you need to go to Hajj,
you wear clothes like it's judgment day already.
You know that, right?
I know the billionaire and the homeless person,
the taxi driver and the owner of the taxi company
all wearing the same clothes.
All lined up same way.
We're standing in millions in front of Allah
and sort of his house saying,
here we come Allah, here we are, here we are,
we answer your call.
By the way, this is called a dress rehearsal.
It's a rehearsal for which day?
For judgment day, when we're going to come before Allah.
That's what this is.
So this is, if there's one time where you should forget about the Dunya,
and you should only think about the Akhira,
it should be when Hajj, we do tawaaf.
And as we're doing tawaaf,
we come to the stone and we say,
ربنا آتنا في الدنيا حسنة وفي الأخيرة حسنة
وقناع ذاب النار,
our master give us good in this life and good in the next life
and protect us from the punishment of the fire.
If this is the time to forget all of the Dunya,
what should you be asking?
Ya Allah, give us Akhira.
I don't care about Dunya, it's nothing.
Just let me die, let me die here.
Please ya Allah, let me just die here.
So people have seen that.
When I went to Hajj, I said, Allah, just let me die here.
I was like, you psycho.
Why are you saying, you just said ربنا آتنا في الدنيا حسنة.
Oh, I feel like I'm going to die.
See this, what happens is people are depressed.
People have some hopeless situation in their lives.
People have some other problem going on.
They owe a lot of people money.
Some other situation.
Ya Allah, just take me because, you know.
That's not a spiritual situation.
That's a psychological situation or a financial situation
or a social situation.
And you like to feel better about yourself and lie to yourself
and tell yourself, this is your spiritual situation.
It's not. You're lying.
Stop kidding yourself.
You know.
There are some people that like to be dramatic like that.
Ya Allah, I wish I was dead before this happened.
Oh, that's a lot easier to just...
So unnecessary drama.
And this is playing with something that Allah has himself given.
Now look at this.
If Allah did not extend somebody's life,
then somebody gets to the point where they're 40 years old.
The Quran marks 40 years old as a pivotal moment in a person's life.
It's the midpoint of their youth has ended
and the older age, the adulthood into old age is going to begin.
So it's the halfway. It's the half time in the match.
Right? That's 40 on average.
So Allah says, at that time, what dua should you make?
My master, empower me to be grateful for the favors you've already done for me.
And the favors you have done to my parents.
Isn't that you acknowledging that life has been good?
Because how can you say, Ya Allah, enable me to be grateful for all the blessings you gave me
and all the blessings you gave to my parents if there's nothing good in life?
If you should only be wishing for death, then this dua would have no meaning.
You understand?
And then you say, Wa Aana Amala Salih Antar Allahu.
Ya Allah, allow me to do good deeds that will make you happy.
Is that a dua for now or also the future?
That's also the future.
Now you're making dua to have an opportunity to do good deeds in the future.
What I'm saying is guys that, as I study the Quran, I realize,
and I try to analyze what I hear about Islam from the khubba,
what I hear about Islam from people.
And I realize, we use a lot of slogans.
We use a lot of catchphrases that aren't actually there against Allah's book.
But they become very common.
You know, we want death more than we want life.
Who said?
Who said?
He put everything in the search for you all together.
Now let's take another stab at this and understand this properly.
The Quran does not give the same kind of reminder in every situation.
If you are, if I am, let me not talk about you.
Let me talk about me.
If I am just having way too much fun, way too much like money is good,
entertainment is good, family, everything is set, everything is cruising.
Right?
It's easy for me to forget that this life is temporary.
Maybe at that time, a good reminder for me is I should be prepared for death.
And I shouldn't just associate this as my goal.
But like journey is a lot longer.
I get, you can get distracted easily.
Al-Haqum uttaka'atil.
Allah says it.
When you have a lot of good things, they distract.
And then you end up basically, hatta az-zortum wal makabir,
you end up pretty much at the time of death and you didn't even realize you were just distracted.
You know, you went from one PlayStation game to the next game to the next game,
one Netflix series to the next series to the next series,
and now death is here.
So maybe it's a good thing for you to step back and remember death a little bit in that situation.
You understand?
But if you're going through a hard time,
if you're going through a hard time,
like when difficulty comes, Allah says it's okay, difficulty may be there,
but you're gonna die, so it's okay.
You should just wish for death.
No, then you should have hope that things will get better where?
In this life,
Inna la'a al-Rusli,
isn't that the opposite?
There's a balance in this religion
that if you're becoming too material,
then maybe you should step back from the material a little bit
and remember death.
And if you're becoming too gloomy about life
and you're like,
oh, death would be better,
then maybe you should just shut that part of your brain up.
And don't listen to that hopeless was-wasa
and turn the other way and say,
no, ease will come from Allah.
Allah's help will come.
You know?
This is a balance in the Quran.
It's not one size fits all.
My life, my emotions, they're not always the same.
I go through different things in life.
And at different points,
there are different reminders in the Quran
that come and help me.
Assalamu alaikum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world
that are interested on top of the students we have
in studying the Quran and its meanings
and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships,
which is not very expensive.
So if you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV,
please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much.
And pray that Allah gives our mission success
and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran
and the beauty of it the world over.
