So there's a young lady sitting here who's struggling with the hijab and we say,
you know, these some sisters man, they don't even, let's talk for a while.
Bro, you don't get up for fudger every morning, which was revealed much sooner.
What I'm trying to tell you is, Allah didn't just give us a set of rules.
The Quran is not a book of rules, it's a book of transformation.
And transformation takes time.
That's why the transformation of the companions was compared to the growing of a tree.
Peace be upon you.
Before you begin this video, just quickly wanted to let you know that so much of the work on the Quran has been completed on Bayna TV.
I want you to enjoy systematically studying the Quran from the beginning all the way to the end in brief and then in great detail.
And to do that, I'd like for you to sign up on bayanatv.com.
And once you appreciate what's going on in Bayna TV, I want you to become an ambassador for it and share that subscription with friends and family and give it as a gift also. Thank you.
Bismillah wa sallam wa sallam, wa a'la rasulillah wa a'la alihi wa sahbihi ajba'een.
An important question that was asked that I didn't get to address is when you start studying the Quran, even for example when you're learning the Quran with me or you're listening to the Quran from somebody else or anything.
That is actually essentially an intellectual exercise.
Even if it's cleaning up your thought process, it's an intellectual cleansing.
But what about spiritual cleansing?
What about the heart feeling more connected to Allah?
That's a separate thing.
You might not feel spiritually more connected just because you're listening to a bunch of lectures or learning a bunch of stuff and studying a bunch of stuff.
Those are two separate things and they're equally important actually.
The spiritual cleansing is as important as the intellectual cleansing.
So what about the spiritual cleansing?
In my view, the Quran has described the first level of spiritual and the most powerful level of spiritual cleansing is mindful recitation of the Quran.
Not study of Tafsid and Tadabur, which is a separate thing, but a mindful recitation of the Quran is actually itself something that brings the heart calmness.
If you recite the verse,
when the ayatah recited onto them, it increases them in iman.
They feel something in their heart when they recite.
And you know, I could study the Quran all I want.
I tell you, even if I'm studying, like for example, I'm spending a lot of time studying surat al-Jumu'a nowadays with you guys, which is a different experience.
But when I just, at the end of the night, I just sit there and I just recite the surat.
Just recite it.
It's a different experience because the study and the note taking and the PowerPoint slides and all that stuff, that's up here.
Or you're just sitting and reciting to God and you're just standing in prayer and you're reciting to Allah.
That's not here. Where is that?
That's here. And you do it. Maybe you do that and you don't feel anything.
Maybe you recite and you don't feel anything.
But you know what? You keep reciting and you keep reciting and you keep reciting because the recitation is like it's drilling through the layers of your heart and heart.
And eventually it'll break through.
You will feel something, but you got to stay at it.
You have to say,
It could be that you don't feel something and that's okay.
That doesn't mean it's useless.
That means you just have more work to do, insha'Allah.
But recitation and even listening to recitation is actually a spiritual exercise.
And the bunch of people become mindful of the ayat and you listen to them.
It's a very powerful exercise.
There are surahs that I've studied for years and years and years and then I hear somebody recite them and it feels like I'm hearing it for the first time.
And it's so moving for me to just hear those words.
And that's the power that Allah's words has.
So that dhikr is actually something Allah has mentioned many places in the Quran.
And just think the words that you're reciting, when you're reciting Quran,
the words that are coming out of your mouth are words that were sent from above the seven heavens.
And there was a time when these words were being delivered by Jibril to Rasulullah, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, alayhi wa sallam.
And now you get to say from your mouth the same words that were coming out of the mouth of the Prophet himself, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
So it's the word of Allah, it's the word of Jibril and it's the word of even Rasulullah, sallallahu alayhi wa sallam, by extension.
That's coming out of your mouth now.
It's a very profound spiritual thing that we're doing when we're reciting the word of Allah verbatim.
Okay, so understanding the connection between al-kitab and al-hitbah.
I'll talk to you a little bit about the word al-kitab.
Kitab is used in the Quran in many ways.
The word kitab is used in many ways.
So the phrase means he teaches them the book.
Literally it says it teaches them the book.
But what does the book mean?
Any decree of Allah, like Allah decreed it should reign, or Allah decreed somebody should die.
This is also Allah's Kitab.
Everything that Allah has ever decreed is in a Kitab also.
Fi Kitab-i Makhnoon, or Fi Kitab, right?
So this is one part of the meaning of Kitab.
But there are other meanings of Kitab.
Kitab also means any particular command of Allah to His slaves.
Okay?
Or any rule that Allah established.
I've written Allah, Allah, and the messenger.
Allah has declared that my messengers will win, always.
I and my messengers will always win.
Now, Kitab, the meaning of Kitab that's relevant here,
because you know the first part said,
yatlu alayhim ayaatihi, which is he recites the ayat,
which is clearly the Quran, right?
Yatlu alayhim ayaatihi is the Quran.
And by way of the Quran, he is purifying them.
So that's also kind of a reference to the Quran,
along with the company of the Prophet, Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Then he teaches them the book, and of course, which book?
The Quran.
So why is it saying three different things for the same book?
It's because we have different relationships with the book.
We need to get exposed to the book,
we need to develop a spiritual connection to the book.
We use a key here.
We also need to understand the book,
the part of the book that has Allah's laws and decrees.
Actually, Kitab also means laws.
So Allah uses, for example, Kitab Allahi aleykum.
The law of Allah that's binding on you, Kitab Allah.
Qutiba aleykum al-siyam.
Qutiba aleykum al-kitan.
It says the fasting was written on you.
That doesn't mean written on you.
It actually means fasting was made law over you.
When something is written, it actually means it's become law.
It's permanent, it's actually part of the constitution.
That's the Kitab.
So here, one of the meanings is he teaches them the law.
He teaches them the law.
Now, I told you there's a subtext to these surahs,
and especially this surah.
The Israelites were listening, and the Jews particularly were people of the law.
They believed in al-kitab.
In fact, one of the ways they described the Torah is the laws.
It's essentially laws for them.
And one of the criticisms that you find,
the conflict between Judaism and Christianity,
if you study the life of Jesus,
is actually that they became people who only concerned themselves with the law.
They were only concerned with the law.
And there's two things I'm going to teach you today.
The letter of the law and the spirit of the law.
That's where I'm going to focus our conversation.
I'll make it super simple.
When a judge has a court case in front of him,
and he's about to judge some teenager or whatever, right?
You guys have seen those viral videos of that really nice judge in America up north?
I was like, so what did you do?
What did you do?
Tell me about yourself.
You're going to do that again?
You're not going to do it again, right?
He's a nice guy.
Okay, you'll go.
You go.
You know what I'm talking about?
The super nice judge.
He's also, he's judging people by the law,
but when he looks at their situation,
he looks at their difficulties,
then he's applying what?
Wisdom.
He's actually applying wisdom.
So there's, there's law, but there's also wisdom.
And another judge could say,
I'm going to throw this kid in jail
or I'm going to find him and I'm going to do this or that or the other.
They would still be applying the law,
but there would be less use of what?
Wisdom.
What does wisdom do?
What are the applications of wisdom is when should we apply the law
and when should we not apply the law in the strictest sense?
Who should we go easy on?
Who's not ready for this yet?
Where does it fit?
Where does it not fit?
So circumstantial application, you know,
somebody comes to the Prophet's life and asks,
I'm ready to become Muslim,
but I'm only going to pray two prayers.
How many prayers we have in a day?
He says,
I'm ready to pledge Islam.
I'm only going to pray two prayers.
Well, the law of Islam says what?
How many prayers?
Five.
But the Prophet says, okay,
I mean, take Shahada and he walks away.
And now Sahabah are thinking,
is there a new discount program we didn't know about?
No, because when he prays two,
he will realize the sweetness of the prayer
and he will evolve into what?
Five.
But if you just say five or zero,
because Islam is all or nothing,
then he's not even going to accept Islam.
You understand?
He has to go step by step.
That is not just the law.
That is also what?
Wisdom.
A'ayh, insha'Allah, the Allah says
that if the first thing Allah revealed
was don't drink alcohol,
laa taashrabul khamr,
we would have responded,
wallahi lannatrukan khawra abadan.
We swear to God, we will never leave alcohol.
That's what we would have responded.
Well, that means Allah exercised wisdom
in when he revealed the law when people were ready.
One of the most fascinating aspects of law in the Quran
is the law of how women should be dressed.
That's also a law in the Quran.
The Quran was revealed over 23 years.
Men and women were becoming Muslim from the first year.
Right?
Allah could have revealed,
now that you're Muslim, you should wear hijab in which year?
Year one.
Year two.
Nope, three, four, five, six, ten, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen.
Now we're in Badina.
The battle of Badr has already happened.
And no laws for what?
No laws for hijab.
No laws for khimar.
No laws for jilbab.
Near, arguably, after O'had.
After O'had.
And between, you know, around the time of Surat al-A'zab,
the battle of A'zab,
that's when khimar and jilbab are revealed,
Surat al-Nur and Surat al-A'zab are revealed.
The question is,
these women were Muslim from the time early on,
from the time of Khadija, may Allah be with him, onwards.
There are people that are women that have accepted Islam.
And they are not being told to wear the khimar.
They're being told to sacrifice their lives and leave
and make hijab with the Prophet Salli Sallam,
which is a big ask.
But they're not being told to what?
What Allah decided when to send that.
He says,
He says,
We broke up the Quran.
We divided it up so you could read it to the people at the right time.
So Allah decided,
what's the right time to tell them about how they should dress?
16 years since the start of the coming of the Quran.
When does Allah reveal something?
When He gives,
because the word you anim is really important,
teaching, teaching is about a curriculum, isn't it?
If I'm going to teach you calculus
and you don't even know how to add one in one,
I have to start with the basics, don't I?
I have to start with Math 101
and get you to eventually take steps until you're ready for calculus.
Allah decides which laws are you ready for
and which laws you are not ready for
and maybe that has to do with how much Yuzaqi him has happened.
Yatlu alayhim ayatihi wa yuzaqiim
and they get to a certain point.
Now they're ready for this law.
Then there's some wunta-sqiyah.
Now they're ready for the next law.
Now they're ready for the next law, you understand?
And so these laws that were revealed,
they were revealed at a particular time.
Now I'm not saying that now we should follow Islam chronologically.
I just accepted Islam,
so I have about 17 years before I wear a cha'am.
Right?
Or Salah was revealed after, you know,
arguably after 10 years, the five prayers,
or at least after five years.
So, you know, I have another five years
before I start praying five times a day.
That's the argument that's being made.
The argument isn't what is and isn't the law.
The argument is a human being.
They need time to grow and to mature.
A human being needs time.
And you need to allow people time so they can mature.
Like if you had a younger brother
who was drinking and gambling and doing all that stuff,
and he wants to change,
and he says, okay, okay, okay, I'll come with you,
but I'm only coming to Juma.
And you say no.
Five or nothing.
Because in the Deenah,
and Allah has Islam,
Allah wants complete surrender.
You know?
And you enter into the Deenah,
in the Sunni Ka'fatan,
enter into the surrender of Allah completely.
All or nothing.
You lose the Juma.
What do you think that's going to do?
Huh?
Is he going to even show for Juma?
No.
Because you're expecting the Kitab?
Without what?
Without hikmah.
Without hikmah.
Hikmah actually means that there's, you know,
and we know in real life,
there are situations like that
where you can't expect someone to transform overnight.
Allah didn't even expect a transformation
from the companions overnight.
So there's a young lady sitting here
who's struggling with the hijab,
and we say,
you know, these some sisters, man,
they don't even,
astaghfirullah.
Bro, you don't get up for Fajr every morning,
which was revealed much sooner.
And Allah even says,
Quran al-Fajr,
the Quran al-Fajr is going to be witnessed.
That's what Allah says about Quran al-Fajr.
No astaghfirullah there.
Right?
So what I'm trying to tell you is,
Allah didn't just give us a set of rules.
The Quran is not a book of rules.
It's a book of transformation.
And transformation takes time.
That's why the transformation of the companions
was compared to the growing of a tree.
That was actually compared to,
because a seed needs water,
needs to be matured, needs to grow.
By the way, yuzikki also means to help mature
and to help grow.
And when you grow enough,
then you can handle certain kinds of laws.
So that's something we have to internalize
about the law.
It takes time for one to learn it.
It takes time for one to apply it.
And we should allow that leeway
for someone to learn and apply the law.
This also teaches us that,
you know, some students,
because the analogy,
the wording used by Allah is teaching.
The messenger teaches.
Some people are fast learners.
Some people are slow learners.
Is that not true?
Isn't that a reality of teaching?
Some students are older students.
They're senior students.
And some people are new students.
Is that not also true?
Can a teacher expect the same application
from all of his students or her students?
Is that ever happened?
That's just, that negates education.
Any one of you that knows anything about education knows
you have to identify where your student is
and if you really want them to develop,
you need to identify what's the next step for them
and then what's the next step for them after that
and you have to give
لتركبنا طبق عن طبق
You need to give them one little bit at a time.
This is why the Quran was revealed
stage by stage by stage.
It's not just laws.
It's actually development.
So this
you عن لي مهم الكتاب is mentioned after.
Then there's another dimension to this
of الحكمة
What I want you to know about الحكمة
is also something called
and I want you to know if you're taking notes
you should write this down.
There's something called the letter of the law
and the spirit of the law.
There's two things.
There's the letter of the law
and the spirit of the law.
Okay?
And what that means is
that every law of the law has a purpose.
There's a reason you were given that law.
Like Allah says, you were given the law of fasting
so you could get Taqwa.
So the letter is fast from Fajr until Maghrib.
That's the letter of the law.
The technicalities.
And the spirit of the law is get Taqwa.
The letter of the law and the prayers is
here's the time for Fajr.
Here's the time for Zohar.
Here's Asr.
Here's Maghrib as-Zisha.
Here's how many rak'as you should pray.
Here's how you make Ruk'u'a.
Here's how you make Sujood.
That's all what part of the law.
The letter of the law.
But Allah says,
أقم الصلاة الذكري
establish prayer so you can truly remember me.
What's the spirit of prayer?
Rememberance of Allah.
And there are other spirits of prayer.
إنّ الصلاة تَنْهَا عَنَ الْفَعْشَاءِي وَالْمُنْكَالْ
Prayer stops you from doing evil and shameless things.
Prayer prevents you from falling into evil and shameless things.
That is the spirit of the law.
So there's always the letter and there's the spirit.
These two things are...
Now, so the outside of it is...
You can see the letter of it on the outside.
And there's a spirit of it on the inside.
Like for example, even Allah of Hijab for women has a letter.
Here's how you should wear it.
Here's what you should do.
Here's the garment you should wear.
That's in Surah Tendoura and Surah Al-Azab.
And then in those same Surahs,
Allah will not just tell us,
Okay, here's the letter.
He'll also tell us,
Here is the what?
Here's the spirit,
which if you're interested,
study Surah Tendoura.
I've done a series on Surah Tendoura on that subject.
It's pretty juicy actually.
What is the spirit of the khima?
It's not weird.
What is the letter of the prohibition of alcohol?
What is the spirit of the prohibition of alcohol?
So every law has the letter and the spirit.
One way you can think about this is,
the letter of it is al-kitab,
and the spirit of it is al-hikmah.
Al-kitab and al-hikmah.
Ash-Sha'fi'i Rahimahullah
became famous for one of his opinions,
a lot of scholars after him adopted that opinion.
They said the kitab refers to the Quran,
and al-hikmah refers to the sunnah of the Prophet,
Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
That was his opinion,
and it became extremely popular.
Though there is a lot of merit to that opinion,
because hikmah also in Arabic means
Al-al-munnafi'u wal-amalubihi,
beneficial knowledge that you act upon.
So in that sense, the Quran is the theory,
and the sunnah is the what?
The practice of the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
So in that sense,
the theory and the practice,
Al-kitab wal-hikmah.
And of course the practice also is,
when do you apply it, when do you not apply it?
Right?
How do you apply the law of Allah?
Like a woman who comes and says,
punish me, I have committed adultery,
and the Prophet says go away.
He told her go away, don't get punished.
I don't want you to get punished,
like he sent her away.
Or some Sahabi who said,
I have a head injury,
according to the law,
I have to take a shower, I have to take a bath.
Should I take a bath?
And the people around him said,
yeah, of course you should take a bath, it's the law.
So he took a bath, and his infection got worse,
and he died.
And the Prophet was upset with them
for imposing the law on him,
because it lacked what?
It lacked, it lacked, so that's sunnah, right?
So the sunnah shows you
when to and how to apply the law, right?
So that makes a lot of sense.
But what's interesting is,
that is not the only position on the law,
or rather on wisdom.
Wisdom is used in the Quran,
like I was telling you, there's all PhD thesis on this,
but wisdom is used in the Quran
for prophets before the Messenger of Allah,
so he says, used for Ibrahim, Allah gave him wisdom.
It's used for Dawud,
that they were given wisdom.
It's also used for
Luqman, who's not a prophet,
and also Allah even says,
he gives wisdom to whoever he wants.
But in these ayaat,
what I want you to understand is something
we're going to learn from the story of Isa A.S.
Allah says about Jesus,
where you will teach him the book and the wisdom.
Same phrases here,
book and wisdom.
And then he says he'll teach him Torah and
injeel, Torah was the laws.
Torah was the laws,
and injeel was the what?
Wisdom, and actually if you study it,
careful, you'll see that
injeel was the law,
wisdom and actually if you study it,
carefully you'll find Torah was the letter of the law,
and injeel was the
spirit of the law.
Why are you following this?
What's the point of it?
So let's understand why this is really important.
What happens if people become
only concerned with the letter?
And other people only get
concerned with the what?
Spirit. And this happens in the Muslims too.
This happened before us, it happens among us.
If you're only concerned with the letter,
all you care about is the fatwa.
That's all that, is it haram or not?
Is it haram or not? Just tell me if it's haram or not.
I just need a fatwa. That's it.
You're only concerned with the ruling.
That's all that matters to you.
When that happens to you,
your religion is reduced
to just these rules without any what?
Without any spirit.
And you don't realize
that as your spirit
starts becoming dry,
and you start becoming
spiritually disconnected,
you might be following the laws
exactly,
but you might become a really terrible person
at the same time.
Even though you're following the laws exactly.
So you're praying perfectly
the way you stand, oh my god.
Oh.
On the person next to you
you can tell their hands are in the wrong place.
The rakul wasn't exactly 90 degrees,
you checked.
Their hands and such that should have been here,
technically,
perfect letter of the law.
But the purpose of the prayer was what?
Connect to Allah?
The ayat we're talking about, for example,
the ayat we're describing
how you should be forgiving towards the family.
Fa in ta'fu wa ta'sfahu wa taqfiru, fa inna Allah al-Funir.
So the guy,
phrase, and he's the letter
he's concerned with the Imam
when he said,
ta'sfahu, his s'ad wasn't s'adi enough.
And the fa was in light
and the ha was ta'sfahu wa ta'sfahu.
Ta'sfahu.
Fa inna Allah
the null he didn't do it long enough.
You know,
the tira'ah should be perfect.
And the rakul should be this way.
And the salam should be this way.
Technically, he's concerned with all of that.
And then after he's done with the prayer
he's having a nasty argument with his wife and home.
Over something small.
While the ayat that he heard in the salawar
wa in ta'fu wa ta'sfahu wa taqfiru, fa inna Allah al-Ghafuru Rahim.
If you pardon, overlook,
let it go, Allah is forgiving.
Do you understand what's missing?
The letter is all there, what's missing?
The spirit is gone.
The spirit is completely gone.
This is, and then what happens with the letter is
when you're so focused on the letter
here's the next thing that happens.
You become very concerned about certain laws
and you
you become very concerned about certain laws
and you
completely become blind to other laws.
So
Salah,
clothing, appearance,
fasting, rituals,
the meat better be halal.
Where'd you get the meat from?
Better be halal.
You better have seen the animal die in front of your eyes
before you invite me to the barbecue.
I am not eating at your house.
Super strict on
the Qita. Got it.
Great, that's the Qawab Allah.
That same person
tells, if it's a woman
she tells her
her sons
you know, for example, if a woman's divorced
she tells her kids
I don't want you talking to your dad.
What? Wait, Allah says you have to keep family ties.
Yeah, I don't care.
It's time for margaret, let's pray margaret.
When it comes to family matters
there's no law of Allah.
When it comes to prayer, exactly the law of Allah.
When it comes to halal food, exactly the law of Allah.
When it comes to backbiting, no law of Allah.
This one is this way, that one is that way.
After the Salah is done
you prayed your perfect prayer.
Ya Sheikh, I wanted to talk to you about
this brother at the masjid.
You know about him?
That's Ghiba, bro.
No, no, this is
These are the games people play
with the law of Allah.
So when Allah says, He put them together
you alimuhum alkitaba wal hikmah
what that teaches us is
the law should never be separated from the
wisdom. And then on the other extreme
some people say, oh look at these people
their beards are so worried about
how long their beard should be
and how high their pants should be
and how should the hijab and how should
the animal should be. But look at how mean
they are and how rude they are to their family
and how they cheat people
in business. They do all these other things.
So you know what?
They have law but they have no wisdom.
I'm a good person, I'm a moral person
I follow the wisdom, even if I don't
follow the law, I'm still a good person.
So some people become
all about the law, other people become
all about the wisdom
which is exactly what happened to the Jews and the Christians.
The Jews became all about the law
and the Christians became all about the
wisdom. So they don't follow any of the laws.
They got rid of the laws.
The dichotomy happened and this dichotomy
still exists among them
and it came inside the umma
and Allah sent his final prophet
sallallahu alaihi wa sallam and gave him
a revelation which never
lets him separate the law
from the wisdom in every ayah
every ayah that has law has wisdom in it too
you alimuhum alkitaba wal
haikmah
Now before our break
I want to ask you what al-malik means
which ayah is that from
first ayah
ok let me ask you
what did I say about the king?
A kingdom is recognized by what?
It's symbols, very good you remember
excellent ok al-Quddus
what does it mean?
The holy, the pure
the source of all purity
you remember that discussion?
What does it mean?
The powerful
the authority
the one who cannot be overcome
the governor? Good
Good
The ruler al-Hakeem
the wise and the wise judge
Four names of Allah yes?
Ok we're not on ayah number one
we're on ayah number two aren't we?
What's the first thing the prophet does?
He introduces them to Allah's symbols
Allah's ayat
Allah's ayat
and a king is known by
his ayat
What is the second thing the prophet does?
He purifies them
What was the second name of Allah?
The pure
What is the third thing the prophet does?
He teaches them the law
Where does the law come from?
Comes from the authority
If you don't have authority you can't have law
What's the last thing the prophet does?
He teaches them what?
Where does wisdom come from?
Al-Hakeem
You see what Allah does?
He tells them the ayat
meaning the ayat of the king
He purifies them
purifies them from the holy
and teaches them the book
the book of the dear
and teaches them the wisdom
and teaches them the wisdom
Al-Hakeem
Somebody asked me earlier today
why is it in this order?
Well
It's as if the process
of the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
is bringing to life
the sequence of the names of Allah
in people's lives
Actually the prophet's mission
is to create the reality
of the king of the holy
and when you do that
you really have to speak
You truly have to speak
Sofhanallah
This is a small
taste. What time is Maghrib prayer by the way?
Do you want to keep track?
By 20?
I want to take a little bit more time
Who is the one who sent the ummi
and the messenger from them
and teaches them the ayat
and teaches them the book
and the wisdom
Four steps
are spiritual and the next two steps
are intellectual
It's also really cool
The first two steps are
you're hearing the ayat
the ayat that are being recited cleansing
it pushes towards the spiritual
and the hearts
and the next two steps are cleansing the mind
right?
and so it's actually the hearts and the minds
all of them are covered in these phrases
But this last part
Arabic students might be
interested to know
this in is not in shartiyah
this does not mean if
it does not mean if and how do we know it doesn't mean if?
because it's a lam
in qadum in qablu lafi
when the lam is there that guarantees
that it's not an in that means if
so this actually is a short version
of innahum
innahum so the translation of in here would be
and certainly before this
for a long time before this
they were lost in obvious misguidance
meaning these Arabs
to whom the prophet came for a long time
they were a completely
utterly lost I'm going to tell you a little bit about the word lost
and after the salat
I'm going to actually explain to you
maybe I'll get started on that now
explain to you the relationship between this ayah
and Ibrahim alayhis salam
which is extremely important
we can't move from this ayah if we don't understand
its connection to Ibrahim alayhis salam
so
let's first talk about the word badaal
which commonly gets translated
misguidance we use this word also
in surat al-Fatiha
what a badaalin
a badaal is water so if you have
a large rock like a flat
surface rock and you don't even know that
water is running underneath it and there's no way
for you to access that water so that water
is there but it's no good for you because
you can't access it because of the giant rock
that kind of water is called
badaal meaning it's there
but it's lost unfortunately it cannot
be taken advantage of and the ladin
our stones found
like people wanted to use rocks for
building but sometimes the rocks were so
deep down in the bottom of the valley they're there
but they're useless because you can't bring
them out of the valley back to the village
because they're way at the bottom of the canyon
right so they are badaal because
amlas yakun fi buddun al awdiyah
similarly badaal shay when something gets
hidden or lost
and if you yourself get lost
in a sense getting lost
also becomes getting useless
right so and
that's why the word badaal is used
qalmaa phillabin
ghiyabu shayfi athna'i shayhatala
ta'a mayyuz haddam idhaak
actually also means when something
is lost in something else
like water that is in the milk
but they become inseparable that's also called
badaal
so you can't distinguish one thing from the other
they become mixed with each other so the idea
badaal mubin also means
you had mixed all kinds of things with each other
you had the Arabs
had some parts of the Jewish religion
some influence from the Christians
some influence from the religion of ibrahim
aleyhis salam some from some other pagan
societies greek societies
roman society they mixed
all these different religious traditions into
one hodgepodge religion
all of it mixed together like water
and the milk right
that's badaal also confusion
and one of the names of the Quran is
al-forqan
one of its names is al-forqan
you know what al-forqan means? separation
badaal is everything mixed together
al-forqan is separation
and by the way if you look at the wording
ayat
yatua'anim ayati wajdakihim tazkiya
actually means to purify meaning you separate
the filthy from the clean
which is literally what cleaning is purification is
is to separate those things from each other
okay so i'm going to introduce this to you
and inshallah we'll talk about this
in a little bit
i'm so excited that we can move on from
ayat number two soon
i think the rest of it should go rather
rather quickly inshallah anyway
so the first
time we hear about
this phrasing of four items
happened thousands of years
ago when ibrahim aleyhis salam built a
kaaba
when ibrahim aleyhis salam built a kaaba he spoke to
Allah and he said
he was standing with ismail
this is really important he was standing with
who ismail okay does he
is ibrahim only have ismail as a child
does he have another child
ishak will be born later
okay his haq is a little bit later
so he's standing with young ismail
they finished you know they were
he was supposed to be sacrificed
and he passes that test
and now he's taken now that they've passed that test
now Allah has assigned ibrahim aleyhis salam
to build the kaaba along with
ismail and they're building the kaaba
and when they're building the kaaba together
they make a dua together
so ibrahim and ismail make a dua together
ربّا دا وَبْعَدْ فِيهِمْ رَسُودَمْ
they make dua about their own children
so if they're children of both
ibrahim and ismail it means
from the children of ismail
this is important because later on
ibrahim will have which child
his haq this dua is not
about the children that will come from
his haq because this dua does not
combine ibrahim and his haq
this dua combines ibrahim and
ismail how do we know it combines them
it says ربّا دا
who's the hour referring to it's not my master
it's our master so who does it include
ibrahim and ismail
if you study the ayat before 129 in baqarah
you'll see why it's ismail aleyhis salam
so what prayer did they make
they said
رَسُودَمْ رَسُودَمْ
among them a messenger
raised in their midst a messenger
who comes from among them does that sound familiar to today's
this ayat
thousands of years ago these two made a dua
this barren desert where we're putting
this house together and these people
that have settled here
raised in their midst a messenger
who comes from among them
يطلُوا عليهم آياتكة
he will read your ayat to them
does that sound familiar
then they said
carefully when you
عَلِّمُهُمُ الْكِتَابَةَ
he will teach them the law
and wisdom
does that sound familiar
when you zaki him and he will purify them
does that sound familiar
okay
this is cool
انت العزيز الحكيم
you are ultimately the
العزيز الحكيم
check this out
in the ayat we're studying the next ayat is going to be
وَعَخَرِينَ منهم لَمْ لَمْ مَا يَلْحَقْنُوا بِهِمْ
وَهُوَ الْعَزيزُ وَالْحَكِيمْ
and the ayat before ended also
you said
بِحُلِ الْنَاهِمَا فِسْسَمَا وَاتِي مِمَا فِتْ أَرْضَ الْمَلِكَ الْقَدُوْسِ
العزيز الحكيم
and thousands of years ago
إِرْحِبَ الْإِسْمَعِيدْ مَيْدَ دُعَى
and in that dua what names of Allah did they call him with
العزيز الحكيم
okay
but there is a difference
did you notice a difference
the order has changed
there were four items
if you call them A, B, C and D
it seems like
A, C, D and
B
you zaki him is at the end now
it's not in the beginning
you see that
okay another ayah in the Quran
كما أرسلنا فيكم
now Allah is talking this is not
Ibrahim talking at Ismaili now Allah is
speaking directly Allah says
كما أرسلنا فيكم رسولا منكم
this is how we have sent
in your midst a messenger from among
you يطلع عليكم آياتينا
he is reciting on to you our ayat
ويزكيكم and he is purifying you
ويعلّمكم الكتابة والحكمة
and he is teaching you the law and the wisdom
ويعلّمكم ما لم تكونوا تعدمون
and he is teaching you what you couldn't have known yourselves
does that sound familiar
same order as what we studied today
يطلع عليكم آياتينا
ويزكيكم ويعلّمكم الكتاب وال
حكمة okay let's look one more place
this is the fourth time now
the first time is the one we are looking at
but this is now the fourth time
Naqadmanallahu ala al-Mu'mineen
Allah has certainly done a favor
on the believers
if ba'athaf veehim Rasoola min anfussi him
when he raised a messenger
from within themselves
in their midst
يطلع عليهم آياتيه ويزكيهم
ويعلّمكم الكتابة والحكمة
sound familiar
وإن كانوا من قبدو لفيض لعالم مبين
even though they were utterly lost before this
they were completely lost in misguidance before this
four times this ayah occurs
And three of those times Allah is speaking, one time who's speaking?
Abraham and the Spirits are speaking.
And the one time that Abraham and the Spirits are speaking is different.
And the other times are different.
And the thing is, we have to, the tasks we have in front of us after the Salaat, why are they different?
And what is the connection to this with what we're studying in the rest of the Surah also?
To what Abraham, alayhis salam, said those thousands of years ago alongside our father, Ismail alayhis salam.
So we'll stop with that and inshallah take a break for Salaat.
Mubarak Allah adi wa-dakum. Salamu alaykum wa rahmatullah.
Salamu alaykum everyone.
There are almost 50,000 students around the world that are interested on top of the students we have
in studying the Quran and its meanings and being able to learn that and share that with family and friends.
And they need sponsorships, which is not very expensive.
If you can help sponsor students on Bayna TV, please do so and visit our sponsorship page.
I appreciate it so much.
And pray that Allah gives our mission success and we're able to share the meanings of the Quran and the beauty of it the world over.
